<div><h1 id='ch1'>CHAPTER I<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Overboard</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>“Well,</span> the stealing of autos in this neighborhood
has come to an end, Frank. Wonder
if anybody will ever take to stealing motorboats.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps, Joe. But there isn’t the chance
to steal a boat that there was to steal cars.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gee, now that the excitement is over I wonder
what will come up next.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t know; but something is bound to
happen sooner or later—it always does.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hope it comes soon—I don’t want to get
rusty.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a Saturday afternoon in June, one
of those warm, drowsy days when even the
leaves of the trees seem too indolent to stir.
There was scarcely a ripple on the surface of
the water, no movement but the flow of the incoming
tide.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Three motorboats circled lazily about in Barmet
Bay within sight of the city of Bayport.
The lazy spirit of the afternoon seemed to
have spread to the occupants of the boats, for
they lounged about informally.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff Hooper, in his craft, the <span class='it'>Envoy</span>, had devised
a way of steering with his foot while
sprawled on the side cushions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a motorboat close by, the <span class='it'>Napoli</span>, sat Tony
Prito, a handsome boy with dark hair, olive
skin, and sparkling eyes. In the third motorboat
were two lads certainly who need no introduction
to readers of previous volumes in the
Hardy Boys Series.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boy at the wheel, a tall, dark, handsome
lad of about sixteen, was Frank Hardy, and the
other, a fair, curly-headed fellow about a year
his junior, was his brother Joe. These boys
were the sons of Fenton Hardy, an internationally
famous private detective who lived in
Bayport.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t expect to see you fellows out on
the bay this afternoon,” shouted Biff Hooper,
raising his head over the side of his boat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where did you think we’d be?” called back
Frank. “Up in the attic, studying?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thought you’d be out in your car,” and
Biff grinned widely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a laugh from Tony Prito, and
the Hardy boys also laughed with great good-humor.
Their car was a standing joke among
their chums, and, as Chet Morton put it,
“standing” joke described it exactly, for it
seldom moved.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Never mind,” returned Joe. “That old
car served its purpose, anyway. We used it
only as bait.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was mighty good bait,” said Tony.
“You caught some big fish with that old crate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It has earned its keep,” Frank called back.
“We’re going to put it on a pension and let
it stay in our garage for the rest of its life,
without charge.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys were referring to a roadster that
the Hardy lads had purchased out of their
savings some time previous. It was a car that
proved the old axiom that beauty is only skin
deep, for although it glittered with nickel and
paint and although its lines were trim and
smooth, its inner workings were utterly beyond
the comprehension of Bayport mechanics. For
a few weeks after its purchase the car ran, eccentrically
enough, but still it ran. Then, one
day, for no apparent reason, it gave up the
ghost and no amount of tinkering would
prompt it even to move out of the garage.</p>

<p class='pindent'>However, as Joe had said, the car had
served its purpose. The boys had picked it up
cheaply, with a definite object in view. As told
in the preceding volume of this series, “The
Hardy Boys: The Shore Road Mystery,” there
had been a series of mysterious automobile
thefts on the Shore Road leading out of Bayport,
numerous pleasure cars and trucks having
been stolen, and no amount of investigation on
the part of the police had succeeded in revealing
their whereabouts or the identity of the
thieves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe Hardy, who had earned considerable
local fame by their activities as amateur
detectives, in emulation of their famous
father, had decided to lay a trap for the automobile
thieves and, buying the gorgeous rattletrap,
parked it on the Shore Road for several
nights, concealing themselves in the rear.
After many adventures, the Hardy boys captured
the thieves and recovered the stolen cars.
They collected several handsome rewards for
their work, so their investment in the roadster
proved exceedingly profitable after all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The car owners around Bayport have sure
been breathing easier since that affair was
cleared up,” said Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think there’ll be any more car thieving
for a long time,” Tony declared. “The
two sleuths here put a stop to that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We had a good time doing it,” Frank admitted.
“I’m rather sorry it’s all over.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Never satisfied!” commented Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He prodded the wheel with his foot and the
<span class='it'>Envoy</span> swung about with its nose pointing
down the bay. Barmet Bay, three miles long,
opened on the Atlantic, and in the distance
the boys could see a motor yacht that ran daily
between Bayport and one of the towns on the
coast, a trim little passenger craft that was
proceeding toward them at a fast clip.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where are you going?” shouted Tony.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Out to meet the passenger boat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Race you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So will we!” called Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff abandoned his indolent posture and
settled down to take advantage of his head
start. His boat leaped ahead with a roar.
Tony Prito had to make a half turn before he
could get under way.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys were similarly unprepared,
but they had no doubt of the ability of the
<span class='it'>Sleuth</span> to overhaul Biff’s boat quickly. Their
craft was one of the speediest in the bay, with
smooth lines and a powerful engine.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had trouble on the turn, for the swells
of the other boats caught the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> and put it
off its course, and by the time the craft was
nosing in pursuit, Biff Hooper had a good lead
and Tony Prito was also ahead of them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Step on it!” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank “stepped on it,” and the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> began
eating up the intervening distance. Rocking
and swaying, prow well out of the water,
the boat overhauled the <span class='it'>Napoli</span> and Frank
grinned at Tony as they crept by. Their friend
was getting every ounce of speed of which
his engine was capable and although he jockeyed
to try to put the Hardy boys off the
course, they sped on and soon left him behind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff had been tinkering with the engine of his
craft and had evidently made a few improvements,
for the <span class='it'>Envoy</span> was going along at a clip
it had never before achieved.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks as if he intends to put one over on
us,” muttered Frank, as he opened up the
engine to the last notch. “He’ll beat us to the
boat at this rate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The motor yacht was about a mile away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>On through the water plunged the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span>,
gaining slowly but surely on the craft ahead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Once in a while Biff cast a hasty glance backward
to wave mockingly at them. He misjudged
an approaching wave on one of these
occasions and the <span class='it'>Envoy</span> swerved; he lost valuable
seconds righting the craft into its course
again and the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> gained.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The yacht was about a quarter of a mile distant
when the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> at last pulled up beside
the other boat. Inch by inch it forged ahead
until the bow of each boat was on a line with
the other. Then the <span class='it'>Sleuth’s</span> greater speed
became manifest as it pulled away, leaving Biff
shaking his head in exasperation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly Joe, who had been looking at the
passenger yacht in the distance, gave a shout
of alarm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look!” he cried.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank glanced up just in time to see an immense
puff of black smoke bursting from above
the deck of the yacht. Then, across the waves,
was borne to their ears the roar of an explosion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They could see figures running about on the
deck of the boat. One of them, a woman, ran
directly to the rail and began to clamber up
on it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What on earth—” gasped Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She’s going overboard!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Another figure ran out, making a frantic
grab at the woman who was balanced perilously
on top of the rail. Then, her arms outspread,
the woman jumped. The boys saw her
plunge down the side of the yacht, and there
was a splash as she hurtled into the water.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A moment later she emerged and they could
see her swimming about and waving her arms.
The <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> had drawn closer to the yacht in
the meantime and now the boys could hear a
faint cry for help.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tensely, Frank leaned over the wheel. Great
clouds of smoke were pouring from the yacht.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have to rescue her!” he said. “It’s
her only chance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The yacht had passed the woman by now,
and although a life-buoy had been flung out it
was some distance away from her. Hampered
by her wet clothes, the woman was making no
progress toward it. Slowly, the yacht began
to circle, but the lads saw that it would never
reach her in time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> ploughed on through the waves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys saw the woman throw up her hands
with a despairing gesture and disappear beneath
the surface.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch2'>CHAPTER II<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Rescue</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>As</span> the Hardy boys sped toward the woman,
who appeared above the surface again in a moment
and began to struggle wildly, they saw
that confusion prevailed on board the yacht.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Great clouds of smoke were pouring from
amidship. People were running frantically
about the deck. Efforts were being made to
lower a lifeboat, but apparently something
went wrong, for it sagged perilously and then
stuck, with two sailors working hastily to release
it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the boys’ immediate concern was the
woman. She disappeared beneath the water
again and they were fearful that she had gone
under for the last time. Then, as the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span>
surged forward, they saw her emerge once
more. They were close enough now to see her
frightened face, and, as the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> sped within
a few yards of her, Joe poised himself and
dived.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He plunged into the water just as the woman
was going down for the third time. He
kept cool and, remembering the first aid instruction
he had received, took care not to
come within reach of the wildly clutching hands.
He grasped the woman by the hair and then,
keeping behind her, managed to get a grip
that did not endanger himself. Had she been
able to throw her arms about him, he would
have been dragged beneath the surface
with her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe struggled toward the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span>. It had sped
past when he dived, but Frank had quickly
brought the craft around and Joe had to
swim but a few strokes. Frank throttled
down the engine and he was able to give a
hand in assisting the woman on board. She
was dragged into the boat, dripping and almost
unconscious, and Joe clung to the gunwale
until Frank grasped his shoulders and
hauled him over the side.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the meantime, the Hardy boys’ chums
were speeding toward the yacht. The race
was forgotten.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe did their best to revive the
half-conscious woman. Her immersion in the
water and the shock of being face to face with
death had left her weakened, and she was
moaning and murmuring as she lay on the cushions.
Joe gave what first aid he could, moving
her arms back and forth to restore circulation,
while Frank set the course of the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> in the
direction of the yacht.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff Hooper had already reached the passenger
boat. He drew up alongside, with Tony
Prito, in the <span class='it'>Envoy</span>, not far behind. Passengers
were crowding to the rail, some shouting
and screaming with fright, some pleading to
be taken off.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff and Tony were ready to offer their boats
for this purpose, but they noticed that the
cloud of smoke had diminished in volume. A
uniformed man was bellowing through a megaphone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No danger!” he roared. “The fire is under
control!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But it was plain that many in the crowd
were afraid there would be another explosion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Take us off!” screeched a wild-eyed woman.
“Take us off before the boat blows up!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She scrambled up on the rail, but the uniformed
man seized her and prevented her from
trying to leap overboard.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Need any help?” shouted Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Stand by for a while,” returned the officer.
“We’re getting this fire under control
but we don’t know how bad it is.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff and Tony, in their motorboats, cruised
in the neighborhood of the yacht, as the ship’s
officer asked. The passengers were milling
about on deck, badly frightened, but gradually
they became calmer as a steward assured them
that there was no danger. The heavy cloud
of smoke decreased in volume. The boat’s
crew was small and the fire-fighting equipment
was limited, but in a little while it became evident
that the blaze was not as bad as it had
seemed and that it had indeed been checked in
time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Soon the smoke cloud ceased rolling up from
below.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The uniformed man came on deck again with
a megaphone. He raised it to his lips and
bellowed:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thanks, boys, but we won’t need you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s fine!” shouted Tony, in reply.
“Fire all out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Tin of gasoline exploded. It didn’t spread
much. We’ll be able to make Bayport under
our own power.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Righto!” called Biff. “We’re going in
now, anyway. If you need us, give us a hail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll do that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The motorboats circled away. In the distance,
Biff and Tony could see the Hardy boys
in the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span>, with the woman they had rescued.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Your passenger is all right!” shouted Biff,
to the captain. “Our chums will bring her back
with them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He turned the nose of his craft toward the
<span class='it'>Sleuth</span>.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys were doing their best to
revive the woman they had rescued from the
waves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was not unconscious but she seemed very
weak and scarcely appeared to realize where
she was.</p>

<p class='pindent'>She was an elderly woman, dressed in black,
and although her immersion in the water had
undoubtedly been a tremendous shock, the boys
could see that she was of an exceedingly nervous
temperament and evidently not in the
best of health, for she was worn and pale.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where am I?” she moaned. “Where am
I now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re quite safe,” Frank assured her.
“You’re in a motorboat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You saved me?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We got you out of the water just in time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I want to go to Bayport,” said the woman
weakly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll take you there,” promised Joe. “It
isn’t very far away. We will take you there at
once.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I want to go to Bayport,” she repeated.
“It’s important. I have to see some one
there.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Head the boat around, Frank,” said Joe
quietly. He had seen their chums returning
from the neighborhood of the yacht, so he
realized that there was no further danger from
the fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I must be in Bayport to-night,” gasped the
woman. “I must go there to see Fenton Hardy—the
detective.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then she collapsed weakly, her eyes closed,
and she was a dead weight in Joe’s arms. She
had fainted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys looked at one another in
astonishment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She wants to see dad!” exclaimed Frank
incredulously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a strange coincidence that they, of
all people, should have rescued her when she
was on her way to see their father.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fenton Hardy had many clients, some of
whom came long distances to consult him. He
was one of the greatest private detectives in
the country and his fame was widespread. He
had been for many years on the New York
force and had finally achieved his ambition of
setting up an agency of his own. He had moved
to Bayport, on the Atlantic coast, with his
family and his success had been immediate.
He had successfully handled many difficult
cases and his services were much in demand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe Hardy, his sons, were anxious
to follow in their father’s footsteps, in spite
of his objections and in spite of their mother’s
desire that they prepare themselves for medicine
and law respectively. But the boys had
a natural deductive bent and they had taken
several local cases on their own initiative, succeeding
so well that Fenton Hardy had finally
withdrawn his objections and agreed that if,
when they were of age, they still desired to
become private investigators, he would not
stand in their way.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys were introduced in the first
volume of this series entitled, “The Hardy
Boys: The Tower Treasure,” wherein they
handled their first case of any consequence.
A large quantity of bonds and jewels had been
stolen from an old mansion on the outskirts of
Bayport and after numerous adventures the
lads traced the loot and ran the criminal to
earth. Other volumes of the series have recounted
their adventures in handling other
cases that came their way, all of which they
successfully solved.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the volume immediately preceding the
present book, entitled, “The Hardy Boys: The
Shore Road Mystery,” the lads, as already
mentioned, rounded up a gang of automobile
thieves who had stolen a number of cars and
trucks from points along the Shore Road above
Barmet Bay. After that, things had been quiet
around Bayport and the boys were beginning
to think that mysteries were at a discount.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’d better get her back to Bayport right
away,” said Joe, as he looked down at the
unconscious woman. “She may be dying.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Splash some water on her face. She’s just
fainted, I think.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe rendered impromptu aid, but the woman
was in a dead faint and he could not revive
her at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the meantime, the motorboat was heading
back in the direction of the city. Frank had
“let her out” to the utmost and the speedy
craft was eating up the distance. He crouched
tensely at the wheel, and sheets of spray
splashed over the bow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder what on earth she wants to see
dad about,” he said to himself. Then he
chuckled. “Dad will have to thank us for saving
one of his clients.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch3'>CHAPTER III<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Miss Todd</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Frank Hardy</span> lost no time on the run back
to Bayport. Instead of proceeding directly to
the boathouse, he docked the <span class='it'>Sleuth</span> at one of
the city wharves. There the lads were fortunate
enough to find a taxi. The woman was
still unconscious when they arrived, so with the
assistance of the taxi driver they lifted her
out of the boat and into the car.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank instructed the man to drive to the
office of a doctor they knew well, and there
the woman received attention.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“She has evidently been under a great
strain,” the doctor told them. “The shock of
the explosion and her struggle in the water
were just the finishing touches.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Under his expert administrations the woman
was soon revived sufficiently to sit up. She
looked about her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What happened?” she asked weakly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You are in good hands, madam,” the doctor
assured her. “Just be quiet for a while
and you will be all right.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a few minutes, the woman had recovered.
First of all, she insisted on thanking the boys
for rescuing her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If it hadn’t been for these brave lads I
would have been drowned. It was foolish of
me to jump off that yacht, but I’ve been very
nervous lately, and when I heard the explosion
and saw all that smoke I lost my head completely.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said the doctor genially, “there’s
been no harm done. You were on your way to
Bayport, weren’t you, and here you are.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Am I in Bayport now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You must take me to Fenton Hardy at
once, please,” said the woman, sitting up. “I
must see him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’ll be no trouble about that. These
boys are Fenton Hardy’s sons.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The woman gazed at the Hardy boys in surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“His sons!” she exclaimed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fenton Hardy is our father,” stated Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The woman was evidently astonished.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t that strange! To think that your
father should be the very man I was coming
to see!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s at home now,” said Joe. “As soon
as you’re feeling well enough we’ll take you
there.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That will be good of you. I came to Bayport
for the sole purpose of seeing your
father.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are you coming to visit us?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The woman shook her head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. I want to see your father on business.
Important business. It is private, so I’m afraid
I can’t tell you any more about it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys forbore to question her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose I should tell you my name. I am
Miss Evangeline Todd.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They bowed in acknowledgement.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Will you take me to your father now? I
feel much better. I’m very anxious to see him
at once. There is no time to lose.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd seemed quite agitated, and although
the lads felt that a few minutes more
or less would make no particular difference,
they decided that it would be best to humor
her. Miss Todd got to her feet, and although
she was still physically weak, she evidently
had a mind of her own for she was determined
to remain no longer in the doctor’s office when
she was so near her goal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Accordingly, the Hardy boys helped her out
of the office to the waiting taxi.</p>

<p class='pindent'>During the brief drive she repeatedly expressed
her astonishment at having been rescued
by the Hardy boys “of all people.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve often heard of you boys,” she said.
“You often help your father, don’t you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Whenever we can,” laughed Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I hope you can help him now. I want
to learn the truth about poor Todham.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lads waited expectantly, but the elderly
lady said no more about the object of her call.
She seemed somewhat eccentric, and muttered
to herself a great deal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor Todham,” she repeated, over and
over again. “I do hope Mr. Hardy can help
me. It’s all very strange.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The car drew up at the door of the Hardy
home and the boys helped Miss Todd alight.
They brought her into the house and their
father met them at the door, evidently surprised.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A client for you, Dad,” explained Frank.
“We picked her up just a little while ago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He did not tell his father just how they had
“picked up” the elderly woman.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And is this Fenton Hardy?” said Miss
Todd. She grasped the noted detective by the
hand. “I’ve come a long distance to see you.
These fine boys of yours saved my life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ve been in the water!” exclaimed Mr.
Hardy. He called to his wife. “Laura, will
you look after this lady and make her comfortable?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd’s clothing was not entirely dry,
owing to her immersion in the waters of Barmet
Bay, and when Mrs. Hardy appeared she
insisted on taking the guest upstairs and providing
her with a complete change of garments.
Miss Todd insisted that her business could
not wait, even for such an important detail as
dry clothes, but the better counsel of Mrs.
Hardy prevailed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When Miss Todd came downstairs some time
later she was still very weak and nervous but
in a more settled frame of mind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If you’ll come into my office,” suggested
Fenton Hardy, courteously, “I’ll be glad to
hear your story.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd looked around.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I had intended to keep it private,” she said;
“but you’ve all been so kind to me that I’m
sure it will do no harm if you all know. That
is, if you would care to listen,” she added,
turning to Mrs. Hardy and the boys.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Both Frank and Joe were very curious to
know the nature of the mysterious affair that
had brought Miss Todd to Bayport and it did
not require any persuasion for them to remain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd sat down in an armchair, and
after she was duly settled began a long, rambling
narrative.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s about my brother,” she said. “My
twin brother, Todham. He’s a very clever man—a
professor. Perhaps you’ve heard of him.
Professor Todham Todd, Ph.D. It all started
when Todham and I went on that railway journey
to visit Cousin Albert. At the time I said
that I had a strange feeling that something
was going to happen, and perhaps we had better
not go, but Todham said I was foolish, so
we went. And I was right. It turned out that
I was right after all.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes?” said Mr. Hardy encouragingly, wondering
to what all this was leading.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was quite right,” declared Miss Todd
emphatically. “Because something <span class='it'>did</span> happen.
There was a wreck. The train jumped
off the track. It was a terrible wreck. There
were five people killed and it was a blessing
Todham and I weren’t killed too. But we were
hurt. We were badly hurt. I’ve never felt
the same since. My nerves have never been
right. As for Todham, he always had been a
nervous sort of man, and after that wreck
he went all to pieces. The doctor said he would
be all right after a while, that all he needed
was rest and quiet, and I believed he was right.
But we sued the railway for damages.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you win the suit?” asked Mr. Hardy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It has not come to trial. The lawyers delayed
everything. In the meantime, poor Todham
was acting strangely. You wouldn’t think
he was the same man. He was very queer. I
used to wonder if the railway wreck had affected
his mind. Instead of getting better, he
became worse. Then one night, just before
the trial was to come off, he disappeared.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Disappeared!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He walked out of the house one night and
from that minute to this we haven’t seen hide
nor hair of him,” declared Evangeline Todd.
“We have heard of him, but he’s like a will-o’-the-wisp.
We have heard of him in different
places, but when we come to look for
him, he’s gone. He has never written to us.
There hasn’t been any real trace of him. The
shock was too much for me, and I collapsed and
I haven’t been well since. Not a bit well. My
nerves have been completely shattered.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When did your brother disappear?” asked
the detective.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Months ago. This happened four months
back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fenton Hardy frowned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Four months ago! That makes it more difficult.
If you had come to me earlier I would
have had a better chance of helping you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t say you won’t help me, Mr. Hardy,”
entreated the woman. “Please don’t say you
won’t take the case.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t mean it that way,” said the detective
kindly. “I meant that the chances of
tracing your brother are not as good now as
they would have been four months ago. I’ll
do what I can, of course, but I’m afraid it
will be a hard task.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We searched for him everywhere, Mr.
Hardy. I’m sure he is still alive, for we’ve
had reports of him from different places. But
I have no idea what can have happened to
him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s just possible that he has had a mental
breakdown,” said the detective. “You say he
was acting strangely after the wreck. He may
be in a hospital somewhere, and unable to communicate
with you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m quite sure he didn’t deliberately run
away. Todham has always been so quiet and
studious and so anxious to give no trouble to
any one. Something dreadful must have happened
to him. If it weren’t for hearing that
he has been seen in these different places, I
would believe that he is dead. As it is, I’m
sure he is still alive.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps we can find some trace of him,”
said Mr. Hardy. “I’ll take the case, Miss Todd,
and, although I can’t promise to find your
brother, you may be sure that I’ll do the best
I can.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank you. Thank you, Mr. Hardy. I
knew you wouldn’t refuse. I wish now I had
come to you in the first place, instead of wasting
so much precious time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps we can recover the lost ground.
With a bit of luck, we may be able to pick up
his trail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd sank back in her chair.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I hope so. I hope so. I have been
so worried.” She clasped her hands nervously.
“Find him for me, Mr. Hardy, and I’ll pay
you well. I must know what has become of
Todham.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Her face suddenly became pale. The strain
of the narrative had been too much for her.
She relaxed limply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mrs. Hardy hurried forward.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Get me a glass of water, Frank,” she said
quickly. “She has fainted.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch4'>CHAPTER IV<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Concerning Todham Todd</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>It</span> was quite evident that Miss Todd was in
no condition to go to any of the city hotels.
She needed rest and quiet more than anything
else, and when she had been revived a few
minutes later, Mrs. Hardy insisted that she remain
in the Hardy home for a few days as a
guest. Her sympathy had gone out to the distracted
woman, and although at first Evangeline
Todd would not consider the proposal,
being afraid of imposing on their hospitality,
Mr. Hardy insisted that she remain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Your story interests me very much,” he
said. “I’ll be very glad to take the case, on
one condition.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What condition is that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“On condition that you accept our invitation
to stay here for a while until you are feeling
better.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>So Evangeline Todd was prevailed upon to
stay and Fenton Hardy at once prepared to
take up the trail of the missing professor. He
had no important cases in hand at the time, so
he was able to spare a few days for preliminary
investigation work and he decided that his best
plan was to go directly to the college town
where the Todds had their home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sometimes a professional, and a stranger,
can pick up clues that wouldn’t fall in the way
of a police detective who is known in the town,”
he said. “I’ll run up there and see what I can
discover.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Hardy was accustomed to being called
out of town suddenly and the family were used
to his abrupt departures. The detective was
a man who acted quickly, once he had made a
decision, and Miss Todd was surprised to see
him leaving immediately.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No use wasting any time,” he explained
cheerfully, having paused only long enough
to pack a bag with a few essentials. “I’ll
get busy at once.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although Frank and Joe Hardy were curious
to learn further details of the latest mystery
on which their father was working, and in
which they had taken a small part, Miss Todd
had evidently suffered more from her adventure
in Barmet Bay than they had at first
thought. She was obliged to keep to her room
over Sunday and the lads had no chance to
talk to her, as Mrs. Hardy decided that their
guest should not be disturbed. Wisely, Mrs.
Hardy wanted to keep the woman’s mind off
the matter of her brother’s disappearance and
she knew that if the boys besieged her with
questions her state of anxiety would be only
rendered worse.</p>

<p class='pindent'>On Monday, when the boys returned to school,
they were met at the gate by Chet Morton,
heading a group of grinning chums. Chet, a
plump, jovial youth, equally fond of food and
fun, held up a restraining hand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We would fain talk with thee, noble
youths,” he said. “Humble varlets though we
are, we would crave your indulgence for a
time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You sound like Shakespeare or somebody,”
said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Probably somebody,” Chet agreed. “Young
masters, we have gathered here to-day to do
honor to two brave and bright young men
whom we are proud to call our chums. Perhaps,”
he went on, in the manner of an orator,
“in the years to come, when we are poor and
unnoticed people, we may be able to say to
our grandchildren that once upon a time we
went to school with the Hardy boys, that we
went swimming with them, and that they
often gave us rides in their motorboat. However,
that is not getting to the point—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s it all about?” asked Frank.
“What’s all this speech for?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Patience. Patience. Our little committee
has waited patiently for your arrival and now
we wish to show you our esteem and regard.
It has come to our notice that on Saturday,
the fourteenth instant, you did bravely, heroically,
and nobly perform the humane act of
hauling an old lady out of the water when she
had swallowed several gallons of Barmet Bay
and was in grave danger of drowning. As a
slight token of our appreciation we wish you
to accept these little tokens—” here Chet gestured
to Biff Hooper, who grinned and stepped
forward with two shiny objects on an old cushion—“not
so much for their intrinsic value,
which is considerable, but for the spirit in
which they are meant.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet took a deep breath.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know whether that’s all quite correct,”
he said, “but I learned some of it from
a book.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then, very gravely, he picked up the shiny
objects, which proved to be impromptu medals
carved from the tops of tin biscuit boxes, dangling
from red ribbons, and pinned one on the
chest of each of the Hardy boys.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were loud cheers and shrieks of laughter
from the boys at this mock ceremony, and
the Hardy boys joined in the laugh as well.
However, behind all the nonsense, the lads realized
that their chums were proud of them. The
tin medals were embarrassing, and the boys
watched for their first opportunity to take
them off.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Seriously,” said Chet, some time later
when he was alone with the brothers, “the
fellows think you did some mighty smart work
fishing that lady out of the water. The captain
of the boat told people about it when the yacht
docked.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We couldn’t very well stand by and watch
her drown,” said Frank. “If Biff and Tony
could have got there first they’d have done
the same.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure! But the point is, you chaps got there
first and saved her life. If you hadn’t been
there, Biff and Tony couldn’t have done very
much, for their boats aren’t fast enough.
Where is the lady now? Did she give you
her name?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe then told Chet about Miss
Evangeline Todd and about the coincidence
that her visit to Bayport had been with the
object of seeing Fenton Hardy. Chet was
greatly interested when they told him about
her search for the missing professor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A professor missing, eh? That’s something
new. If one of the professor’s students
had disappeared there wouldn’t be much mystery
about it. I know one student of this high
school who would like to drop out of sight for
a while—until after these exams are over, at
any rate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re hopeless,” laughed Frank, and just
then the opening bell rang, cutting off further
conversation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the boys returned home at noon they
found that Miss Todd had recovered sufficiently
to come downstairs. She seemed in much better
spirits and the rest had evidently done her
a great deal of good, because she was not in
the highly nervous state of the previous Saturday.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s such a relief to know that the case is
in good hands,” she said. “If Fenton Hardy
can’t find poor Todham, I’m sure no one can.
Though he may turn up of his own accord,” she
added.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll hope for the best,” said Mrs. Hardy
quietly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dad didn’t like to question you too much
on Saturday,” Frank remarked. “He didn’t
want to bother you more than he could help.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid I wasn’t in any condition to tell
him many details.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps if you would tell us anything you
overlooked, we might be able to help out a
little, too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd was thoughtful for a moment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There were a few things about Todham that
would identify him almost anywhere,” she said.
“For instance, he was very careless about his
shoes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“His shoes?” echoed the boys.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He <span class='it'>would</span> not keep them laced. It was simply
impossible to keep an eye on that man, and
if I didn’t watch him he was just as likely as
not to go out to classes in the morning with his
shoelaces dragging on the ground, and he
wouldn’t notice them unless he tripped over
them. He was very absent-minded.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s a pretty good clue to go on. What
did your brother look like, Miss Todd?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He was tall and rather thin. His hair was
white and he was clean-shaven. His eyes and
his teeth were very good. Even in spite of
his age and all the reading and studying, he
never had to wear glasses. Oh, yes—there’s
something else. He had an expression he often
used, about as near swearing as he ever went.
‘By jing!’ it was. Whenever he was excited
about anything or wanted to emphasize something
he had said, he would always exclaim
‘by jing!’ I remember that he forgot himself
in a lecture one day and said that. The dean
spoke to him about it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“ ‘By jing!’ ” remarked Frank thoughtfully.
“It isn’t an expression one hears every day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was the only expression I can remember
that was quite characteristic of Todham.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd had little of further value to tell
them, and when the Hardy boys were by themselves
later on they discussed the peculiarities
of the missing professor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He forgets to tie his shoelaces and he says
‘by jing!’ ” observed Joe. “It should be easy
enough to pick him out with a description
like that. It’s strange he hasn’t turned up
long ago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Unless he met somebody who knew he was
missing and who had heard of those little
habits, he wouldn’t be noticed. And it’s just
about a thousand chances to one that we would
ever run across him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we can at least make a note of it and
tell Dad when he comes back. Chances are,
he will never hear about those things, and Miss
Todd may forget to tell him. It might help
him a lot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess this is one mystery where we won’t
have much chance to help,” said Frank ruefully.
“Still, we’ll do what we can.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the Hardy boys were destined to take
an even more active part in the mystery of
Todham Todd than Fenton Hardy himself.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch5'>CHAPTER V<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Plans for a Trip</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Vacation</span> time came, as it always does, although
the days dragged, and when the last
examination was written and the Hardy boys
and their chums faced the long summer holidays,
the boys had more exciting concerns than
the affair of Todham Todd.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Miss Todd had left the Hardy home, after
profuse thanks for the hospitality the family
had shown her, and had returned to the college
town. Mr. Hardy, after spending a day or so
there, had gone on to parts unknown and it was
assumed that he was following clues that he
hoped would lead to the discovery of the missing
professor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What are you going to do now?” asked
Chet, on the first day of the holidays, when
a number of the boys were sitting in the barn
back of the Hardy home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Joe and I were figuring on a motorboat
trip,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good idea,” Tony Prito remarked. “Where
are you going?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank shrugged.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No place in particular. We hadn’t come
to that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“As long as you go <span class='it'>somewhere</span>, it’s all right
with you, eh?” suggested Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s about the size of it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d like to go on a motorboat trip myself,”
said Biff Hooper slowly. “As a matter of fact,
I know of a place to go, but I don’t know
whether we can reach it in a boat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where’s that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was talking to an old sailor the other day
in one of the villages down the shore and he
was telling me a story about some caves that
are said to be down on the main shore. We
were talking about buried treasure, and that’s
how he brought the matter up. He said that
there were old rumors of treasure in these
caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Treasure!” exclaimed Chet, brightening up.
“That’s our meat!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course, I’m not saying there is treasure
in these caves. But the old chap said he had
heard the story and he thought there might
be something in it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“In the caves, you mean,” said the irrepressible
Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure! These caves are out on the coast,
south from the mouth of Barmet Bay.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It wouldn’t take us very long to go down
and look the place over,” Frank remarked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re not easy to reach. I’m not sure
that we can get to them by motorboat. But I
believe there’s a road runs down the coast in
that neighborhood and we might be able to
get there by land.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We have the motorbikes,” said Joe
promptly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll find out more about it from the old
chap and let you know,” Biff promised.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Find out more about the treasure,” advised
Chet. “Find out if it is in gold or silver and
if we have to dig for it, and if there’s enough
to divide up among the crowd of us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So far as treasure is concerned, I don’t hold
much stock in these stories usually,” said Biff.
“But this old chap said that a gang of wreckers
at one time lived in these caves. They had
a pleasant little habit of changing the lights on
the buoys along the reefs and wrecking ships.
Then they would rob the vessels and store the
loot in the caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good night!” exclaimed Tony. “Regular
pirates.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll say they were. Of course, all this was
years ago. The gang was wiped out eventually
and some of the leaders were hanged, but this
old chap I was talking to said that very little
of the loot was recovered. Of course, it may
have been sold or shipped away, but he believes
a lot of it is still hidden in the caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hasn’t any one ever hunted for it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes. But they’ve never found any
thing.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why should we?” asked Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why shouldn’t we? And what does it matter
if we don’t? We might have some fun
making the trip.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think it’s a good idea!” approved Frank
Hardy. “We can take the motorcycles, run
down there and poke around, and then come
back. Of course I don’t think we’ll find any
treasure, but it’ll give us some sort of an objective,
anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Suits me,” declared Chet. “My motorbike
is hereby enlisted. I can take Biff along
in the side car.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And we have our machines,” Joe said.
“Tony can ride with one of us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We ought to have a mighty good trip,”
said Frank. “How long do you think we should
be away, Biff?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It will take about a day and a half to reach
that part of the coast, for the roads aren’t very
good, and then it will take another day or so
finding these caves. If we want to do any
exploring I guess we could stick around for
the rest of the summer and still have lots left
to do.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we won’t stay for the rest of the
summer. But about a week or ten days should
give us a good outing.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That suits me,” said Chet. “I have other
things to do in the holidays besides crawling
around in caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was decided that the lads should inform
their parents of the projected trip and make
ready immediately. They planned to leave
Bayport in two days, as they wanted a day in
which to overhaul their motorcycles and get
everything in readiness. Tony Prito was dubious
about getting permission, as his father
had been talking of putting him to work in the
wholesale fruit depot for a few weeks during
the summer season.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the Hardy boys went into the house
to tell their mother about the trip to the caves,
they found that their father had just returned.
He was unpacking his bag as they entered the
hall.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hello, Dad!” they greeted him. “What
luck?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fenton Hardy shook hands with his sons and
returned to the bag.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What kind of luck do you mean?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“In the Todd case? Did you find the professor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No,” said the detective, “I didn’t find the
professor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t you get any trace of him at all?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I found traces of him, all right. He’s still
alive, which is the main thing I learned.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And yet you couldn’t find him?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I followed him through half a dozen towns
and cities, but I must say he is mighty elusive.
He was always about three jumps ahead
of me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He knew you were looking for him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think so. He wasn’t running away
from me. But he keeps on the move and he
jumps around from one place to another without
any rhyme or reason, so he was hard to
follow. I finally lost track of him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s tough,” said Frank. “Where did
you lose the trail?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“At a little place called Claymore, about
fifty miles south of here. He had been seen
there last week, but he went away and no one
knew where I could find him. So I gave up
the search and came home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you dropped the case?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fenton Hardy laughed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you ever hear of me dropping a case
before it was cleared up in one way or another?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No,” admitted Frank. “But I thought you
may have considered it a waste of time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was a waste of time to keep following
him about and never catching up with him. I
decided to try another angle. Oh, we’ll pick
up Todham Todd yet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Joe and I have some information for you.
But perhaps you know it already. Miss Todd
gave us a few facts about her brother’s appearance—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have all that. I have a pretty good description
of him, and I managed to get hold of
a photograph at the college.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you hear about his shoelaces?” asked
Joe, excitedly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“His shoelaces?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Miss Todd said her brother was mighty
absent-minded and that quite often he forgot
to tie up his shoelaces.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Hardy was interested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t hear that one,” he said. “It might
be valuable. I’ll make a note of it. A clue
like that might mean a great deal in a case like
this.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And about ‘by jing?’ ” asked Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“By jing?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s an expression he used. He never
swears, but once in a while he says ‘by jing!’
if he is excited.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s something new, too. In all the information
I picked up about Todham Todd I
didn’t hear anything about that expression or
about the shoelaces, and they are two of the
most important clues I could ask.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys were gratified that they had gained
this much information for their father’s benefit.
They knew that although Fenton Hardy had
given up the direct search for the missing professor,
he would never abandon the case until
there was a definite solution one way or the
other.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you found why he disappeared from
home?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I imagine he simply lost his memory,” said
Mr. Hardy. “At the present time, from what
information I could pick up, he has no idea
that his real name is Todham Todd. His memory
is completely gone and he isn’t able to
remember anything of his past life. Probably
if he met his sister again or some old acquaintance,
it might all come back to him. He is
wandering around, trying to find out who he is
and where he comes from.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Poor old chap!” said the boys sympathetically.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He evidently had some money on his person
when he disappeared, because he hasn’t
been in want, and the reason it was so hard to
follow him was because he didn’t stay in any
one town more than a day or so. Just long
enough to know that it wasn’t his own town
and that he could learn nothing about himself
there. Then he would go on to the next place.
But he’ll turn up, I’m sure. I have a number
of places being watched, where he’s likely to
put in an appearance some time, and I’ll be
notified at once.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“In the meantime,” promised Frank, “we’ll
keep our eyes peeled for him. But we’ll not be
able to help much for a couple of weeks yet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re going on a motorbike jaunt down
the coast to look over some caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hidden treasure?” asked their father, his
eyes twinkling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hope you make a million,” laughed Mr.
Hardy. “I’ll try to find Todham Todd before
you come back.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch6'>CHAPTER VI<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Missing Motorcycle</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>“I wish I</span> were a boy,” sighed Callie Shaw.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Iola Morton looked up from her ice-cream
soda.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Me, too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s tough luck that you’re not,” said Joe
Hardy. “We’d like to have you along on the
trip with us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Boys have all the luck. Girls have to stay
at home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys, Chet Morton, and Biff
Hooper were celebrating their departure by
treating Callie Shaw and Iola Morton—and
incidentally, themselves—to ice-cream at the
Bon Ton Confectionery Shop. Iola, a plump,
dark girl, was Chet’s sister, and fully as fun-loving
as her brother. Of all the girls at Bayport
High she was the special favorite of Joe,
as Callie Shaw, brown-haired and brown-eyed,
was above all other girls in Frank’s opinion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This one is my treat,” Joe announced.
“Another soda won’t hurt any one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a warm afternoon and the others
promptly accepted. Six tall, frosted glasses
of soda, pink and white and orange in color
were placed before them and imbibed with
many gurgles of satisfaction.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, sis,” remarked Chet, “I don’t know
but that I’d trade places with you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, you would!” said Iola ironically.
“You wouldn’t give up that trip for a million
dollars.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve just been thinking that you’re lucky
to be staying in town. You’ll be able to have
ice-cream sodas and we shan’t.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s true, too,” said Joe reflectively. He
was very fond of sodas, and he had not considered
the matter in this light before.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, but think of all the fun you’ll have.
And if you find any treasure in those caves
you’ll be able to eat ice-cream sodas for the
rest of your lives.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Our lives wouldn’t last very long if we
did nothing but eat sodas after we came back,”
laughed Frank. “How about another?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The girls shook their heads. Chet groaned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is my fifth to-day,” he said. “I <span class='it'>could</span>
take another but I wouldn’t have any room
left for supper. Guess we’d better quit.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’d better,” agreed Biff. “If you’re sick
to-morrow morning we’ll start without you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The thought of this possibility drove all desire
for another ice-cream soda from Chet Morton’s
mind and the boys and girls left the Bon
Ton. As they would not be seeing one another
again before the start of the trip, Callie and
Iola said good-bye to Biff and the Hardy boys.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll miss you,” Callie assured them.
“The town won’t seem the same without you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It won’t be, either,” grinned Chet. “It’ll
be a lot quieter when we clear out.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Our house will be quieter, at any rate,”
Iola agreed. “It’ll be a relief when you’re
gone, Chet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s a sister for you! Frank, you and
Joe are lucky. You have no sisters.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know about that,” replied Frank.
“If we had sisters like Callie and Iola we
wouldn’t have any kick.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet and his sister, in spite of all their good-natured
banter, got along very well together.
So, with much laughter and good wishes, the
friends parted, and the Hardy boys went home
to finish their packing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Next morning found the four boys bowling
along a country road leading out of Bayport,
on the first stage of their journey to the caves
on the coast. Greatly to their disappointment,
Tony Prito had been unable to come with them,
as his father needed him. Biff Hooper and
Chet rode together. Frank and Joe, of course,
had each his own motorcycle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was an ideal summer morning, cool and
bright. The boys carried their blankets and
cooking utensils, but they had agreed it would
be best not to carry too many provisions, as
food could be purchased along the way as it
was needed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This won’t be our first experience searching
through caves,” called out Frank, who was
in the lead of the little procession.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It will be old stuff to you chaps,” answered
Biff. “I sure wish I had been with you when
you were going through the caves below the
Shore Road.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He referred to the experience of the Hardy
boys when they were in search of the automobiles
that thieves had hidden in secret caves
beneath the cliffs along the Shore Road above
Barmet Bay.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“By the way,” said Chet, “did you know
that one of that gang of rascals escaped from
jail the other day?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>This was news to the others. When the
Hardy boys discovered the stolen cars they
also aided in the round-up of the gang of automobile
thieves, some of whom had been sentenced
to long terms of imprisonment. Others,
who had been merely tools of the ring-leaders
of the outfit, were given lighter sentences in
the local jail.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who was that?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Carl Schaum. He made a getaway the day
before yesterday. The police were keeping
quiet about it because they thought they might
catch him again before the news leaked out.
But he’s clear away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Carl Schaum!” exclaimed Frank. “He
was one of the chaps who got off lightly.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And to my mind he was one of the worst
rascals of the lot,” added Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, he’s at large now. They haven’t been
able to trace him. He’s a tough bird, all right.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Carl Schaum used to live around here,
didn’t he?” asked Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure. He used to live just outside the city.
He’s been in and out of plenty of scrapes. A
real bad egg.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, probably the police will pick him up
again,” Biff said. “He won’t get very far.
It’s a cinch he won’t hang around Bayport.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not if he knows what’s good for him,”
remarked Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The road the boys had taken went south and
then east toward the coast, through a beautiful
countryside. The boys had been on their way a
little over two hours, but already they were
hot and dusty. Just at that moment, Joe spied
a flash of blue among the trees beyond an inviting
shady lane.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks like a lake down there,” he said.
“What say we investigate?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m game,” said Chet. “Maybe we can
have a swim.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>As time was not pressing and the boys were
traveling leisurely, in no hurry to reach the
caves, they at once fell in with the suggestion.
Frank headed down the lane and in a few
minutes the lads were riding beneath shady
trees down toward the banks of a small lake
that lay calm and clear among the woods.
There was a wide, sandy beach, and with
whoops of delight the boys at once brought their
motorcycles to a stop, parked them beneath the
trees by the road, and raced gayly down
through the grass.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was one of the finest natural swimming
places they had ever seen and the boys lost no
time flinging off their clothes and splashing
out into the cool water. For about half an
hour they enjoyed themselves as only boys can,
swimming and diving, until at last, refreshed,
they came up onto the beach and donned their
garments again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Their motorcycles had been parked just out
of sight of the beach, because the road ran past
the lake, about a hundred yards distant. However,
the boys had given little thought to the
safety of the machines because the lake was
in a secluded spot and there was no sign of
human habitation near by.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll race you back!” shouted Frank, as they
began to dress.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a mad scramble for clothes. Chet
adroitly hurled one of Biff’s shoes into a
thicket, thinking thereby to get a head start on
his chum, but Joe sat on Chet’s trousers as he
drew on his own socks, and Chet hunted in
vain for the essential garments, losing more
time than Biff did. All this byplay took time,
and Frank, in the meanwhile, was dressing
hastily but calmly, and was ready before any
of the others. With a yell of triumph, he
darted up the grassy slope.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe was next. Shoelaces dragging, he set
out in pursuit. Chet did not even bother to
put on his shoes but hastened after, his shirt
open, and hanging onto his trousers with one
hand while he fastened his belt. Biff, plunging
about in the bush in search of the missing shoe,
was last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“First up!” shouted Frank. Then the others
heard him give a sudden exclamation of surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the matter?” called Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He ran up in time to see Frank standing in
the roadway, an expression of consternation
on his face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The bikes!” he exclaimed. “There are only
two here!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What?” yelled Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“One of our bikes is missing! What do you
know about that!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>As Chet and Joe hastened up they saw that
he was right. Where three motorcycles had
been parked beside the road, there were only
two left.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank’s motorcycle was gone!</p>

<div><h1 id='ch7'>CHAPTER VII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Carl Schaum</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Frank Hardy</span> wasted no time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The motorcycle had been stolen. There was
no doubt of that. That it had been stolen within
that past five minutes, he knew. When the
boys were coming out of the water he thought
he had heard the clatter of a machine, but at
the time he had paid no attention to the sound,
thinking it came from the main road.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come on!” he shouted. “We’ll chase him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Which way has he gone?” gasped Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank looked at the road. It was not a
traveled thoroughfare and weeds and grass
were in the ruts. It was impossible to see any
sign of the tire tread.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Joe and I will go ahead,” he decided.
“Chet, you and Biff go on back to the main
road on your bike. If you don’t get any trace
of him, wait for us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He sprang onto Joe’s motorcycle and his
brother leaped up behind. Biff Hooper was
just emerging from the bushes and Chet
quickly told him what had happened.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a moment the two machines were roaring
off along the road in opposite directions, Chet
and Biff returning to the highway and the
Hardy boys going on down the country lane.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Once past the lake, Joe and Frank found
the going was rough. Presumably, it was just
a lane connecting with the highway, and there
was little traffic over it. The motorcycle
bumped along, Frank letting the machine out as
much as he dared.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They came to a dusty spot in the lane and
Frank gave a cry of exultation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is the way he went! There’s the tire
marks!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Clearly defined in the dust was the imprint
of the tread. The boys knew they were on the
right track, but they knew that the thief was
undoubtedly proceeding as quickly as they
were, if not faster.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Could they overtake him?</p>

<p class='pindent'>Coming to a more level stretch of road,
Frank risked a greater speed and the motorcycle
leaped forward in a cloud of dust. There
were many curves and the high trees obscured
a view of the road ahead so they had no idea
how close they were to the fugitive.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Owing to the roar of their own machine they
could not have heard the clatter of the other
motorcycle even if it had been only a short distance
ahead. They could only trust to their
own speed and to the chance that the thief
had not obtained too much of a start.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly, as they swerved around a bend in
the road, Joe gave a cry of delight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the distance, on an open stretch, half-hidden
by a heavy cloud of dust, a motorcycle
was hurtling toward an expanse of paved highway
that lay like a white ribbon far beyond the
trees.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s him!” Joe shouted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Frank had already seen the dark object
ahead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He let the machine out to its fullest speed.
He knew that if the fugitive once gained the
highway it would be impossible to overtake
him. It was now or never.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the country road was deceptive.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just a few yards away, he spied a culvert.
It had been poorly constructed and a bad bump
was inevitable. It was suicidal to take it at
their present speed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He desperately tried to slacken pace, but the
machine reached the rise in the road in a moment,
lurched over it, seemed to leap through
the air, and then hit the road again with a
crash. There was a tremendous jolt.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank’s grip was almost torn from the handlebars,
but he held on tightly. Joe had
grasped him tightly around the waist and still
retained his seat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The motorcycle swerved, skidded wildly, and
headed toward the ditch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Frank had set himself for the shock of
going over the culvert and he acted almost instinctively.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Had he been unprepared he would certainly
have lost control of the motorcycle and both
he and Joe might have been killed. He swung
the hurtling machine back into mid-road again
just when it seemed that it was about to crash
into the deep ditch. He did not slacken speed,
for that would have meant a dangerous
skid.</p>

<p class='pindent'>By skillful handling, he settled the machine
on the smoothest part of the road again and
it roared on down the stretch.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fugitive, too, seemed to be having trouble.
The motorcycle ahead was lurching and
bouncing in an alarming manner and its speed
had slackened. Frank’s experienced eye saw
that the thief had encountered a rough and
treacherous piece of road that ran for about
half a mile before it met the main highway.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly they saw the machine swerve wildly
and go completely over on its side. The driver
was thrown into the middle of the road.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s done for!” Frank shouted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But his joy was short-lived. The thief had
not given up yet. He scrambled to his feet
and returned to the motorcycle, righted it, and
leaped into the saddle. The machine, evidently
undamaged, bounded forward again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>However, the accident had given the Hardy
boys a chance to make up ground and they had
gained considerably. In a few moments they
reached the beginning of the rough section of
the road and the fugitive was no more than
two hundred yards ahead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The two motorcycles lurched and bounded
over the bumpy surface. Frank saw that the
thief was not a first-class driver. He seemed
to be having a great deal of trouble keeping
the stolen machine on the road and did not
dare travel at high speed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As for himself, he saw that he would have
to take chances. He shouted to Joe, “Hang
on!” and let the motorcycle out as much as
he dared.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a rough ride. More than once it
seemed as though they would crash, but they
steadily gained on the fugitive.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man looked behind. He saw that he
had no hope of reaching the highway.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The stolen motorcycle came to a stop. The
rider leaped out into the road and ran toward
the ditch. Beyond it there was a fence and a
high bank of trees. Through the ditch and
over the fence scrambled the fugitive. He
looked back again just as the Hardy boys
drew up beside the abandoned machine and
then disappeared among the trees.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys were at first inclined to follow, and
Joe dashed toward the ditch in pursuit. But
Frank’s better counsel prevailed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let him go,” he said. “We’d never find him
in that underbrush, and he might just double
back to the road again and clear out on the
motorcycle. We’ve got the machine back.
That’s the main thing.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Reluctantly, Joe came back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, we’ve got the machine. But I’d like
to lay my hands on that crook.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t you recognize him?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I only caught a glimpse of his face but it
seems to me I’ve seen him before.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve both seen him before.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The Shore Road gang.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The auto thieves?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank nodded his head in assent.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Then,” exclaimed Joe, “that must be Carl
Schaum! All the others are in jail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s who it is, all right. I recognized
him the moment he looked back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wish I had chased him!” declared Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s likely putting a lot of distance between
himself and us just now. I guess the reason
he stole the motorcycle was to help him in
his getaway, for the police are looking for him
since he escaped from jail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If we had caught him we would have had
to take him back to Bayport anyway,” Joe
remarked philosophically. “It would have interrupted
our trip. Perhaps it’s just as well.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’ll be picked up somewhere else. I’m
glad he didn’t get my motorcycle. That would
have upset the trip even worse.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank examined the machine. It had been
slightly damaged by the upset on the rough
road and there were a few dents and scrapes,
but there was nothing seriously wrong with it.
He mounted the motorcycle and its staccato
roar soon filled the air.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Running as good as ever,” he said, with
satisfaction.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good! Shall we go back now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We may as well. There’s no use chasing
Carl Schaum, and the others will be wondering
what has happened.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The brothers rode back toward the swimming
pool and then out to the highway, where
they found Chet and Biff waiting for them.
Not having found any trace of the machine
on the highway the chums had waited according
to instructions. When they saw the brothers
coming in view, each on his own machine,
they raised a cheer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good work!” shouted Chet. “Did you have
to battle for it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No battle at all,” returned Frank, bringing
the motorcycle to a stop. “An old friend
of ours had just borrowed it for a little ride.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet looked at him incredulously. Frank
laughed at the expression on his chum’s face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“An old friend!” exclaimed Biff. “I didn’t
know you had any friends around this part of
the country.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He wasn’t exactly a friend. An acquaintance,
I should say. Carl Schaum swiped the
machine.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet and Biff whistled simultaneously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Schaum was the thief!” Biff exclaimed.
“Are you sure?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is he?” demanded Chet. “Did you
tie him up?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We didn’t catch him,” confessed Joe. “He
left the bike in the road when he saw we were
gaining on him. Then he cleared out over the
fence and into the woods.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That was too bad!” exclaimed Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are you sure it was Carl Schaum?” asked
Biff Hooper, for the second time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I got a good look at him,” Frank said.
“It was Carl Schaum, all right. When we get
to the next town we’ll tell the police. If they
know he’s around here at all they’ll probably
land him without much trouble.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet went over to his motorcycle.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, the sooner we get to the next town,
the better. We’ve lost quite a bit of time already.
What say we start on again?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The chums agreed that the discovery of the
swimming hole had cost them considerably more
time than they had expected, so accordingly
they mounted their machines again and set out
on the highway once more.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch8'>CHAPTER VIII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Strange Doings</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>The Hardy</span> boys and their chums spent the
night at a hotel in a small village. They were
up bright and early next morning, eager to
reach the end of their journey. Had it not
been for the delay consequent on the attempted
theft of Frank’s motorcycle, they might have
reached the neighborhood of the caves that
evening, but, as it was, they had a two hours’
trip before them when they set out shortly
after six o’clock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Their immediate destination was a fishing
village by the name of Glencove. It was a
sleepy little place, quite picturesque but redolent
of fishy odors, a typical hamlet of the kind.
The boys were aware that Glencove was some
distance north of the caves, but as they did not
know the precise location of the “Honeycomb
Cliffs,” as they were called, they preferred to
stop off at the village and get what information
they could.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The general store, a ramshackle building
where one could buy anything from safety pins
to grindstones, where one could mail a letter,
put through a telephone call, or obtain garage
service, appeared to be the most likely spot.
Parking their machines by the wooden sidewalk,
the lads went into the store, where they
found a venerable man with white whiskers
patiently scrutinizing his newspaper.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess we’d better stock up on a few supplies,
eh, fellows?” Frank suggested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This had been their plan. Instead of burdening
their machines with provisions all the
way from Bayport, they had decided to get
supplies at the village nearest to the caves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps we won’t have to stock up very
heavily,” said Joe. “If the caves aren’t far
away we may be able to drive up here when we
run short of grub.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That,” said the hungry Chet, “would be
terrible.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank turned to the old gentleman, who had
put aside his paper and was regarding them
through his thick-lensed spectacles with grave
curiosity, as though they were some new specimen
of humanity entirely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How far is it to the place they call Honeycomb
Cliffs?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old gentleman’s eyes widened.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Honeycomb Cliffs!” he said, in a high,
cracked voice. “Be ye goin’ to pass by there?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We want to camp around there for a few
days and we were figuring on buying some supplies.
If it’s far away we’ll buy all we need
right now and carry the stuff with us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old man leaned farther over the counter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ye’re agoin’ to camp at Honeycomb
Cliffs!” he exclaimed incredulously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“For three or four days!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps longer.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old gentleman shook his head solemnly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ye’re strange to these parts, ain’t ye?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is the first time we’ve ever been down
this way.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought so,” returned the old man with
a great air of satisfaction, as though his judgment
had been verified.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Frank, becoming a trifle impatient,
“we’d still like to know how much
farther we have to go.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a matter of about ten mile by the road.
Then ye’ll have to walk a ways.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ten miles. Why, that isn’t very far. We’ll
just buy enough food to last us a day or so
and then if we need more one of us can come
back here. There’s no use packing along too
much.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And ye say ye’re goin’ to camp there?” persisted
the old man, as though he could not
quite grasp the fact.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. What’s wrong about that? Aren’t
there any places we can pitch a tent?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, there’s places ye can pitch a tent
and I’ve no doubt but there’s fishermen’s cottages
that you could find a room at. But if I
was you I wouldn’t do no campin’ near Honeycomb
Cliffs. That is,” said the old man, “unless
ye stay away from the caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, that’s what we came for,” put in
Biff. “We intend to explore the caves!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old man gave a perceptible gasp at this.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Explore ’em! Lads, ye’re crazy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old gentleman’s attitude puzzled the boys
extremely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is it against the law?” Chet inquired.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, it ain’t agin’ the law, but it’s agin’ common
sense.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It just is—that’s all,” retorted the storekeeper,
as though that explained everything.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You don’t mean to say it’s dangerous!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe. Maybe,” returned their informant
mysteriously. “It may not be dangerous,
but it would be foolish. If ye’ll take my advice
ye’ll stay away from them caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s some queer things been goin’ on
down there lately. Folks tell me the fishermen
down that way are scared nigh to death.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What are they afraid of?” asked Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old man shrugged eloquently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s just it. Nobody knows. But there’s
been queer lights seen down around them caves.
And shootin’.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Shooting!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Guns goin’ off,” explained the storekeeper,
as if they had failed to understand the word.
“Mighty queer doin’s, they say. Two men
a’ready that tried to find out what was goin’
on—they got shot at.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet whistled softly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This sounds good,” he observed. “We
may stay longer than we had intended.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ye may stay forever,” growled the old
man gloomily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank smiled at this thrust.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Has anybody any idea what’s wrong?” he
asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The storekeeper leaned across the counter
and lowered his voice, in the manner of one
imparting a deep secret.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They do say,” he declared, “that there’s
smugglin’ in them parts.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose that’s only natural. There’s a
lot of it along the coast, and the caves would
make that an ideal spot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, whether there is or there ain’t, the
caves ain’t healthy for strangers. If I was
you lads, I’d stay away from there.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we’ve planned this trip and I think
we’ll go through with it,” Frank said. “If
you’ll fix us up with some supplies, we’ll be
on our way. We’re not afraid of smugglers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do as ye like,” the old man returned, as
though washing his hands of any further responsibility.
“But I’m warnin’ ye. It ain’t
no place if ye’re lookin’ for a quiet outing.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The one thing we’re afraid of, is a <span class='it'>quiet</span>
outing,” Joe assured him. “Excitement,” he
added slangily, “is our meat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ye’ll get lots of it if ye go pokin’ around
them caves,” the old gentleman predicted.
“Mebbe a lot more than ye bargain for.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>However, he was prevailed upon to sell the
lads a quantity of provisions for their trip, although
he accompanied the transaction by a
running fire of dismal comments on the unlikelihood
that they would ever be seen alive again.
When he saw that they were determined to go
to the caves, in spite of his admonitions, he
wagged his head sadly and mumbled a few
caustic remarks on the stubbornness of boys in
general who would never listen to their elders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys and their chums, far from
being frightened at the prospect of danger at
Honeycomb Cliffs, were elated. They were disposed
to disregard much of what the old man
had said—the perils were most probably exaggerated
in the re-telling—but there was no mistaking
the old man’s sincerity and they knew
that undoubtedly there was a mystery of some
kind concerning the neighborhood of the caves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What that mystery is, we’re going to find
out,” said Joe, as they mounted their motorcycles
again, duly laden with supplies. He expressed
the determination of all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It looks a lot brighter,” Chet agreed.
“There’s a chance of a bit of excitement now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, probably there’s nothing to it,” scoffed
Biff. “Somebody has seen a tramp’s campfire
on the cliffs and heard some one shooting at a
rabbit, and started a big yarn out of it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we are going to have our own fun
exploring those caves, and if there’s a mystery
on foot, so much the better,” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys followed the directions given them
by the old storekeeper and in due time left the
coast road and turned down a rutty, torturous
lane that ended on the open seashore, near a
fisherman’s cottage. The little house was built
at the base of a hill and the beach ended at this
point in towering cliffs. The lads could see a
faint, winding path leading up the side of the
hill back of the cottage.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know what they call this place,” said
Chet gravely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think it has a name,” said Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, they call this place Fish-hook.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Fish-hook? Why?” asked Biff, neatly falling
into the trap.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Because it’s at the end of the line.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>With that, Chet brought his motorcycle to
a stop. The Hardy boys also stopped, joining
Chet in his laughter at the foolish look on Biff’s
face when he saw how he had been duped.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The storekeeper had told them that the fisherman’s
cottage was the last human habitation on
the way to the caves and that they could very
likely get permission to leave their machines
there for safe-keeping. To reach the caves
they had to climb the path up the hillside until
they reached the top of the cliffs, then proceed
for a considerable distance until they came
to a deep ravine, where they could descend to
the shore. They would then find themselves
on a beach whereby they could reach the caves
to right and to left. The cliffs themselves cut
off access to the caves by any other route than
the ravines, several of which were to be encountered
in the three miles of steep coast, as
at the northern and southern extremities the
cliffs were sheer to the deep water and could
not be skirted even at low tide.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys had scarcely dismounted from their
motorcycles when the door of the cottage
opened and a stocky, leathern-faced man of
middle age emerged. He was plainly a fisherman
and he came over to them, a look of surprise
on his broad, good-natured countenance.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What can I do for you, my lads?” he inquired.
“It ain’t often I see strangers here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We want to know if we could leave our
motorcycles here for safe-keeping?” asked
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Certainly. Most certainly, you can.
There’s a shed back of the house, where you
can put ’em. Is it just for an hour or so?
Goin’ up on the cliffs?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps for a few days. We were planning
to go exploring among the caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fisherman’s expression changed instantly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Explorin’ the caves!” he exclaimed.
“You’d best go back home. There’s strange
doin’s in the caves these days. It’s no place
for boys.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch9'>CHAPTER IX<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Storm</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Chet Morton</span> laughed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We heard there were some queer things
happening around here, but that doesn’t
frighten us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s nothing to laugh at, young man,”
returned the fisherman tartly. “I’ve lived here
for twenty years and I’m no fool. The caves
ain’t healthy just now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Rum-runners, I suppose,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the fisherman scorned this suggestion.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If it’s rum-runners, they’d be bringin’ their
cargoes out to the road, wouldn’t they? Not
much sense in ’em hidin’ the liquor in the
caves and leavin’ it there, is there?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wouldn’t think so. But perhaps they
bring it out to the road quietly.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nothin’ of the sort. It’s been investigated.
There’s been no queer doin’s on the road at all.
All the queer doin’s are right in the caves. If
it was rum-runners, they’d be bringin’ the
stuff in by boat, and there ain’t been any boats
seen around here that can’t be accounted for.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just what are the queer doings?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lights, mostly. And shootin’.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But has no person been seen?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not a livin’ soul.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s strange.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Strange ain’t the word for it!” declared
the fisherman. “It’s downright spooky. Like
ghosts or somethin’.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you believe in ghosts?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t. If I did believe in ghosts, though,
I’d say there was ghosts down in them caves
lately and that’s all I’d think about it. But
not believin’ in ghosts, I don’t know what to
think.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you gone down to the caves yourself?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I went down there a couple of weeks ago,
but I didn’t see anything until just when I
was comin’ back that night. Then I saw a
light away down in one of the caves I’d been
in just a couple of hours before. Next I heard
two or three shots, and then a yell.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A yell!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The most awful screech I ever heard.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, that proves that there’s <span class='it'>somebody</span>
down there,” remarked Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Maybe it does and maybe it don’t. I
wouldn’t say it was a human voice I heard.
More like an animal.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But an animal couldn’t make a light.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And there ain’t many human bein’s could
make that yell. So there you are.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yells or no yells, we’re going to explore
the caves,” declared Frank, with finality.
“What say, fellows?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll tell the world we are!” exclaimed Chet.
“You couldn’t drive me away now with a squad
of marines.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fisherman shrugged.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s your funeral,” he said. “I’m thinkin’
you’ll come away from there a lot faster than
you go in.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps,” agreed Joe, with a grin. “And
perhaps we’ll find out just who or what is
causing all the disturbance. We’ll go prepared
for anything that may happen to turn up, at
any rate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ll need to,” said the fisherman gloomily.
“Don’t say that I didn’t warn you. You’re
welcome to put your machines in the shed, and
if you’d like a bite to eat, I guess my wife can
fix up a bit of a snack for you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>This hospitality was appreciated by the boys
and they saw that the fisherman’s bark was
worse than his bite, as the saying is, but they
politely declined, as they had eaten just a
short time before. Chet, who could—and
would—eat at any time, was not very emphatic
in his refusal; he would willingly have accepted
the invitation. But the other lads were anxious
to be going on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s very good of you,” said Frank, “and
I hope you don’t think we’re rude in going
ahead to the caves after your warning. But
there are four of us, you see, and we think
we can look after ourselves pretty well. So,
if you’ll just let us leave the motorcycles in
the shed while we’re around here we won’t
bother you any further.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re welcome to do that. And I suppose
if you’re bound to go on to the caves, nothin’
I can say will stop you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fisherman led the way to the shed, where
the motorcycles were safely stored. The machines
would be under cover in the event of
rain, and there was a stout padlock on the door
that ensured their safety against being stolen.
The lads unloaded their supplies and each
filled his pack with provisions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have we got everything?” asked Frank
finally. “Matches, flashlights, revolver, bullets,
bread, salt, coffee—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Everything needed for an expedition to the
South Pole,” said Chet, shifting his pack to a
more comfortable position on his shoulders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A complete check-up showed that they had
everything they needed; so, after bidding good-bye
to the fisherman, who drew them a rough
map showing the route they should follow in
order to reach the caves, they set out up the
path just back of the cottage.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nobody seems very encouraging about this
trip,” said Biff, as they ascended the hillside.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you think <span class='it'>can</span> be the trouble down
in the caves?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gold smugglers, I’ll bet! In spite of what
the fisherman says, I can’t think of any other
explanation,” Frank replied. “They probably
have some way of getting the stuff out to
the road without being seen. Underground
passages, or something of the sort.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It seems likely. The shots and the yells
were just to frighten people away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we should soon find out.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although the hillside path had not seemed
very formidable from the shore, the boys
found that it was steeper than it looked, and
it was more than an hour before they finally
reached the top of the cliffs. Here a magnificent
view awaited them. Far below, the fisherman’s
cottage seemed to lie at their very feet,
like a toy house. The ocean lay like a flat blue
floor, far to the east, north, and south, and
back of them was a great, barren expanse of
tumbled rock, without sign of path or road.
Venturing close to the edge of the cliff, the
lads saw a sheer wall of rock, many feet in
height, at the bottom of which the waves were
lapping.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No wonder we couldn’t reach the caves by
skirting the shore!” said Frank. “The only
way along the base of that cliff is by boat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have to go ahead and search for the
ravine the fisherman told us about,” suggested
Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet looked up at the sky.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, and we can’t afford to lose any time
about it either. We’re in for a storm.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although the lads had noticed that the sun
had gone behind a cloud, they had not seen the
heavy black cloud banks massing above them,
so intent had they been on their climb up the
steep, winding path. Now, when they looked
up, they saw that a storm was indeed imminent.
The breeze bore to their ears a rumble of distant
thunder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It looks like a bad one,” said Biff. “We’d
better hurry.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Without further ado, the boys hastened off
along the faint trail that led among the rocks.
They could see no sign of the ravine, but judged
that it would be almost invisible until they came
almost on it. Their progress was slow, as it
was difficult to make haste over the rocks and
boulders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The storm came up swiftly. Within ten
minutes the clouds were banked blackly in the
sky above. A streak of livid lightning rent the
gloom and there was a peal of thunder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re out of luck if we can’t find shelter
before this storm breaks,” panted Chet. The
air was insufferably close. A few scattered
raindrops warned the lads that they had no
time to lose.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They plodded on, mentally wishing that they
had remained at the fisherman’s cottage but
realizing that it was too late to turn back now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Another flash of lightning, a terrific thunderclap,
and the storm broke.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Rain began falling heavily. It streamed
down from the black skies as though the clouds
had opened. The wind rose. Far below them
the surf boomed and the waves crashed against
the base of the cliff. Rain poured in a veritable
deluge. The lads had neglected to provide
themselves with slickers, as they were already
burdened by the weight of their supplies, and
they were soon drenched to the skin.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They stumbled on, scarcely able to follow
the faint path in the gloom. Lightning flickered,
thunder crashed constantly, the wind rose
to a howl. There was not the slightest vestige
of shelter, not even a tree, out on this rocky
waste. Frank looked in vain for a boulder
large enough to offer some protection.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They plunged forward into a streaming wall
of rain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was in the lead. Chet and Biff were
next, and Joe brought up the rear. They could
scarcely see one another in the gathering gloom.
On and on they went, heads bent to the storm,
and, to Chet especially, time seemed to stand
still in a gray world.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly Frank looked behind, then came to
a stop.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is Joe?” he shouted, above the
clamor of the gale.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others looked back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe had vanished.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch10'>CHAPTER X<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Cave</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>The</span> boys gazed at one another in surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where on earth did Joe disappear to?” exclaimed
Biff Hooper.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They peered into the gray oblivion of the
storm, but the rain was teeming down in such
heavy torrents and the gloom was so intense
that it was impossible to see more than twenty
yards away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have to go back,” decided Frank
quickly. “He probably sat down to rest and got
lost when he tried to catch up with us again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They retraced their steps over the rocks,
keeping close together. They shouted again
and again, but in the roar of wind, rain, and
thunder they knew there was little chance that
Joe would hear them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I never thought to look back,” said Chet.
“I thought he was right behind us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Same here,” declared Biff. “He might
have dropped back five or ten minutes ago and
we didn’t know it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The search seemed hopeless. It was late in
the afternoon and already getting dark. Once
in a while they stopped and listened, hoping to
hear some faint cry from Joe, but there was
nothing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he fell down and hurt himself,”
suggested Frank. “He may be lying behind
some of these big rocks and we can’t see him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys searched patiently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe Hardy was nowhere to be found.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They did not dare scatter, for fear of losing
one another, but they hunted among the rocks,
realizing the hopeless nature of their quest. At
last they halted, standing in a little group, with
rain pouring down on them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank expressed the fear they had all held
for the past few minutes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder if he could have fallen over the
cliff!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They had been going along within a few
yards of the uneven edge of the cliff and they
realized that, in the rain and the dim light, it
would have been easy for Joe to have stumbled
into the abyss. They turned sick at the thought
of the frightful plunge, ending in certain death,
had he tumbled over the verge.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly, above the roar of the storm, they
heard a faint cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Listen!” cried Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Breathlessly, they waited.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Again came the cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Help! Help!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was from almost at their feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank ran quickly forward. At the very
edge of the cliff, he stopped and peered down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Over to one side, a few feet below the top of
the sheer wall of rock, he spied a dark figure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was Joe!</p>

<p class='pindent'>He seemed to be clinging directly to the side
of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hastily shouting to the others, Frank ran
across the rocks until he came to a place immediately
above where he had seen his brother.
He flung himself flat and peered over into the
dizzy depths.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just beneath, he could see Joe’s white face.
His brother was clinging to a small bush growing
out of the side of the cliff. Had the bush
been his only support, he would not have been
able to maintain his hold, but fortunately there
was a ledge of rock, a few inches wide, in which
he had managed to implant his feet. Thus he
had clung to the face of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Quick!” shouted Frank, to the others. He
realized the need for haste. “He’s here!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t hold on much longer!” called Joe,
in a strained voice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll get you out of this,” Frank assured
him. But his heart sank when he saw that Joe
was beyond his reach.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff and Chet came running up, and Frank
tersely explained the situation to them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s only one thing to do,” he said.
“Both of you hang on to me while I lower myself
over.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff peeped over the edge of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ll never make it,” he said. “You’ll
both be killed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re not going to stand idle until he gets
exhausted and lets go his hold,” declared
Frank. “It’s the only chance, and I’m going
to take it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He flung himself down and began to edge forward
until he was leaning far over the verge.
Biff and Chet seized his ankles and set themselves
by digging their heels against the rocks.
Bit by bit, Frank lowered himself, headfirst,
over the side. His outstretched hands were but
a few inches away from Joe’s wrists. Joe still
clung to the bush that had saved his life.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank dared not look down, for he was hanging
at a dizzy height. He closed his eyes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A little more,” he called out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He swung lower and gripped Joe’s wrists.
He secured a tight hold. There was no time to
lose, as he knew it would take every ounce of
strength he possessed to drag his brother back
to safety, and he was growing weaker all the
time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ready, Joe?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right,” gasped Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Haul away!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet and Biff began dragging Frank back.
There was a double weight now, for Joe relaxed
his grip on the root to which he had been
clinging and was now dangling in space, supported
only by Frank’s firm grip on his wrists.
Frank had no idea that his brother weighed so
much; the strain was terrific.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Gradually, however, he was drawn back to
safety. For one horrible moment he thought he
was losing his hold on Joe’s wrists, as their
locked hands reached the edge of the precipice.
But Chet, leaning forward, seized the back of
Joe’s shirt, clung to him while Biff scrambled
over, and together they hauled him up onto the
rocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For a moment, neither of the Hardy boys
could say a word, they were so exhausted by the
ordeal. Above them the storm still raged, the
rain still poured from the black skies, the lightning
still flickered, and the thunder still boomed
and rumbled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Boy, that was a narrow squeak!” said Chet
solemnly, at last.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t talk about it,” said Joe, closing his
eyes, as though to shut out the memory of the
sight. “I can still see the waves away down
beneath me. I was never so near death in my
life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll stick closer together after this. How
did it happen?” Frank asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I stopped to tie my shoelace. When I looked
up again I couldn’t see you chaps at all, so I
began to run to catch up. I didn’t realize I
was so near the edge of the cliff. Then some of
the rock must have broken off under my feet,
because everything gave way and I felt myself
falling.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re mighty lucky you’re here to tell us
about it,” said Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll say I am! I just managed to grab that
root growing out of the side of the cliff and I
hung there until I thought my arms would be
pulled out of their sockets. I thought I’d never
be able to hold on until you found me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was quite a while before we missed you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“At any rate, I <span class='it'>couldn’t</span> have held on, but I
managed to find that ledge and got my feet on
it. That rested me. I was certainly glad when
I heard you fellows shouting for me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Recovering somewhat from their grueling experience,
Frank and Joe Hardy got to their
feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s run for it,” suggested Chet. “We’re
drenched to the skin, as it is, but I don’t want
to stay out in this storm any longer than I
have to.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>With one accord, the boys resumed their
journey over the rocks. This time no one lagged
behind. For safety’s sake they stayed close together
and well away from the verge of the
cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a short time Frank gave a cry of delight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The ravine!” he yelled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Through the pouring rain, just a few yards
ahead, they discerned a deep cut in the rocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They scrambled toward it. The ravine was
deep and the slope was steep, but they had been
fortunate in reaching it just at a point where
a path led down among the rocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Far below, they could see the beach and the
breaking rollers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Slipping and stumbling, the boys made their
way down the steep, winding path in the downpour.
The storm was unabated. Its violence,
on the contrary, seemed to have increased. The
rain came down in sheets.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Halfway down the path, Joe gave a cry of
excitement.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A cave!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He pointed down toward the base of the cliff,
just visible from the path.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There, but a short distance from the breaking
waves, was a dark hole in the steep wall of rock.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch11'>CHAPTER XI<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Footsteps in the Night</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>With</span> the goal in sight, the Hardy boys and
their chums hastened down the treacherous
path, along the steep side of the ravine. The
path was slippery and little rivulets of water
ran at their feet. Chet Morton slipped and
went sprawling in the mud, getting to his feet
with exclamations of disgust.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, well,” he said philosophically, “I can’t
be any wetter than I am already.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank consoled him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When we get to that cave we’ll light a fire
and dry ourselves out a bit.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They at length reached the floor of the ravine
where little streams of water were coursing
from the upper levels to the sea and splashing
across to the beach. It was only a few
yards from there to the black entrance of the
cave, which was well above the reach of high
tide.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank led the way.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He took a flashlight from his pack as the boys
hastened into the dark mouth of the cavern.
They were in shelter, at any rate, and they
could look out at the streaming rain and feel
thankful that they had a roof over their heads,
although that roof was a rocky one.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank directed the beam of the flashlight into
the gloomy interior and in its gleam he saw
that their shelter was no mere niche in the face
of the cliff, but a cave that led to dark and unknown
depths.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks as if we can start our exploring
right here and now,” he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Explore my neck!” grumbled Chet. “Let’s
have a fire.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How about firewood?” inquired the practical
Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>This had not occurred to the others. They
glanced at one another in dismay.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s right too,” said Joe. “There’s not
much wood around these rocks and it’s all wet
by now, anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nothing but driftwood,” Frank observed
disconsolately. “The rain has drenched it.”
He glanced out, and along the shore he spied
a few bits of wood tossed up by the waves, but
they were sodden and useless.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is going to be fine,” said Chet. “We’ll
have to shiver here all night without a fire. A
great beginning to our visit!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>To tell the truth, the boys were feeling none
too cheerful over the prospect, for they were
all cold, wet, and hungry and they had been
looking forward to dry clothes and a hot meal
by a roaring fire. Now it seemed that they were
doomed to spend the night in the cheerless shelter
of a damp, cold cave, without the vestige of
a blaze.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank goodness our blankets are dry, at
any rate,” Joe said philosophically.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank moved farther back into the cave, with
the flashlight illuminating the way. Suddenly
he gave an exclamation of mingled astonishment
and delight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well! can you beat this, fellows?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What have you found?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Firewood.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others came hastening over to Frank
Hardy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Look!” Frank cast the beam of the flashlight
against the black wall near by.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Full in the center of the circle of radiance,
they saw a neat pile of wood. It had not been
placed there by accident; that much was certain.
It had been stacked carefully by human hands.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank stepped over and picked up one of the
sticks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good dry driftwood. We don’t have to
worry about a fire now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder who on earth piled it in here?”
remarked Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet shrugged.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why worry about that? The main thing is
that some thoughtful soul has been kind enough
to put it here, and we’re the boys who are going
to use it. Where shall we light the fire, Frank?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Right here, I guess. This is far enough
back from the entrance so that we won’t have
to worry about the rain beating in. It’s certainly
queer how that wood comes to be here,
though.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Probably the mysterious chaps who are
doing all the yelling and shooting,” said Biff.
“We’ll be out of luck if this is <span class='it'>their</span> cave we’ve
stumbled on.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s ours now. I don’t see any ‘No Trespassing’
signs.” Frank began carrying wood
over to the center of the cave. Then he set
down the flashlight, took out his pocketknife,
and whittled at a particularly dry stick until
he had a small heap of shavings. Carefully
stacking a few of the smaller sticks over the
shavings and the larger sticks above, crosswise
so that there were plenty of air spaces, he took
a match from his waterproof case and ignited
it, putting it to the shavings. They flared up
brightly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Anxiously, the boys watched the little blaze.
The flames caught the small sticks, which snapped
and crackled. Then, as the fire rose higher,
the heavier wood was ignited, and in a short
time the boys had a roaring fire. Never had a
campfire been so welcome. Frank had been
afraid that lack of a draught in the cave might
cause so much smoke that they would be almost
smothered, but evidently there was some opening
in the roof, some overhead passage that
acted in the nature of a chimney, for the smoke
was carried off above.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As the warmth of the fire penetrated the cave,
the boys took off their drenched clothes and
spread them about the blaze, in the meantime
wrapping themselves in the heavy blankets they
had brought with them. Chet produced the
frying pan, and the fragrant odor of sizzling
bacon soon permeated their refuge. He improvised
a tripod from which was suspended a
tin pail, duly filled with rain water that coursed
in a gushing stream just beside the mouth of
the cave, and in a short time the coffee was
boiling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys never enjoyed a meal more than
they enjoyed their supper in the cave. The
driftwood blazed and crackled, casting a cheerful
glow, illuminating the rocky ceiling and
walls of the underground chamber. With crisp
bacon, bread toasted brown before the fire, hot
coffee and jam, they ate ravenously, and at
last sat back with deep sighs of sheer content.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This old cave isn’t so bad after all,” said
Chet, wrapping his blanket around him like
a cocoon and wriggling his toes toward the
flames.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others glanced toward the entrance of
the cavern.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was pitch dark outside, and still raining.
They could hear the constant beat of the downpour,
the incessant roar of the surf, the splash
of the waves, the moaning of the cold wind out
in the blackness of the night, and the cave
seemed the most comfortable place in the world.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We owe a vote of thanks to the chap who
stacked this driftwood in here,” said Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll tell the world!” declared Joe. “We’d
have been shivering and hungry yet if it hadn’t
been for him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder who he could have been,” mused
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps somebody who was down here
searching for the smugglers or bootleggers or
whoever has been raising all the fuss around
here,” his brother suggested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He hasn’t shown up yet,” Chet remarked
cheerfully. He looked out into the storm and
shivered. “Somehow, I have an idea he won’t
be along to-night, either,” he added, edging
nearer the fire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess we’d better have a good night’s
sleep and then start our exploring to-morrow,”
Frank said. “We can start right on this cave,
for that matter. It seems to lead back for quite
a distance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sleep sounds good to me.” Biff yawned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although part of the floor of the cave was
rocky, much of it was sand, which provided a
fairly comfortable resting place. The boys
were tired after their long journey, so they
wrapped themselves up in their blankets and
were soon drowsily chatting, while the fire died
lower and lower.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At last only the embers glowed crimson in the
darkness. Chet Morton was already snoring.
Soon, all were asleep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fire was a scarlet eye in the blackness of
the cave. Beyond the entrance, rain still
poured in a seemingly endless torrent and the
surf roared dully.</p>

<p class='pindent'>An hour passed. Two hours.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe, who had been sleeping soundly, was
awakened. At first he did not realize where he
was, could not imagine why he was sleeping on
the ground, wrapped in a heavy blanket, and
then it gradually came back to him and he remembered
about the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was just about to turn over and go to
sleep again, wondering vaguely what had
aroused him, when he heard a footstep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It came from close by.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He listened, and then he heard it again.
Some one was moving cautiously about in the
darkness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe raised himself on one elbow and peered
into the gloom. But he could see nothing.
However, he reasoned that it was probably only
one of his chums.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When he heard a rustle, he spoke.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is that you, Frank?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The words rang out clearly in the silence of
the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the consequence was surprising. Instead
of the reassuring voice of his brother, Joe heard
a muffled exclamation, quick footsteps as some
one ran across the floor of the cave, and then the
crash of a fallen rock.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch12'>CHAPTER XII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>A Disappearance</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>“Who</span> is that?” demanded Joe Hardy,
scrambling to his feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no answer. He heard the sound
of running footsteps gradually growing fainter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hey, there!” he shouted, now thoroughly
aroused. “Fellows! Wake up!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He stumbled about in the darkness, trying to
find his flashlight and his chums. Then he
heard Chet’s sleepy voice:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the matter? It isn’t morning yet.
Lemme sleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wake up! There’s some one prowling
around here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s that?” called out Frank, from the
darkness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There was some one else in the cave just
now. He woke me up.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps it was only Biff. Hey, Biff!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>A deep sigh. Then Biff mumbled:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Whaddaya want?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wake up.” Frank switched on his flashlight
and he turned it on each member of the
startled group. “Everybody here?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure!” replied Biff, sitting up in his blanket.
“What’s wrong?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Joe says somebody was prowling around
the cave.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It wasn’t me. I’ve been sleeping like
a log.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It wasn’t me either,” spoke up Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess I was right, then,” declared Joe.
“There really <span class='it'>was</span> somebody. I thought for a
minute it might be one of you playing a trick on
the rest of us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re all accounted for,” said Frank.
He got up and tossed a stick of wood on the embers
of the fire. In a few minutes it began
flaming up brightly, casting a circle of illumination
through the cave. “Tell us about it, Joe.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe thereupon told of hearing the mysterious
footsteps in the cave, of calling out and of hearing
the exclamation, the crash of the rock, and
the running footsteps as the intruder fled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did he go out the front way?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. He seemed to go farther into the cave,
toward the back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, then,” said Frank decisively, “we’ll
just go and look for him. If he went that way,
he’s in the cave yet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aw, let’s look for him in the morning,” protested
Chet, as he rubbed his eyes. “I think
Joe was dreaming.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was no dream. I <span class='it'>heard</span> him walking
around. It wasn’t any of us, so it must have
been a burglar—or somebody.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What would a burglar come around
here for?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps it’s the chap who piled up all that
wood,” said Frank. “Maybe this is his cave
and when he came in and heard Joe call out he
got frightened and ran.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That sounds more reasonable. Anyway,
we’ll take a look around for him. He can’t be
far away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys hurriedly dressed. They were soon
wide awake, excitement having banished all desire
for further sleep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We were going to explore in here, anyway,”
said Frank, as he took his flashlight and led the
way toward the back of the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys confronted an arch in the rock, an
opening that seemed to lead into a tunnel.
They approached it cautiously, and Frank often
turned the light on the floor to make sure that
no pitfalls lay before them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank went into the tunnel first. In single
file, the others followed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was about fifteen feet in length and about
six feet high. As the floor was of solid rock,
they were unable to find any footprints that
would serve to prove that the intruder had
passed that way.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The tunnel led to another cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, there’s a regular chain of caves in
here!” exclaimed Joe, as the boys stepped out
into a massive underground chamber.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Our cave was only the beginning,” said
Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the glow of their flashlights they saw that
the cave in which they now stood had a number
of dark openings in the walls. These were, presumably,
tunnels leading into further caves beyond.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There are a dozen different passages out
of here. Our friend might have taken any of
them,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll tackle the biggest,” suggested Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good idea. If we don’t get anywhere, we’ll
try the others.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The largest tunnel was immediately ahead.
Frank, accordingly, stepped into the gloomy
passage. The others followed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When I was going to sleep to-night, I never
thought I’d wake up and take part in an exploring
trip underground before morning,” observed
Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank gave an exclamation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s what we were looking for!” he cried.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A footprint.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others crowded around him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Clearly discernible in the radiance of Frank’s
flashlight, the lads could see the imprint of a
boot in a pitch of wet sand on the floor of the
tunnel.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks like a fresh track, too,” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re on the right trail. Let’s keep
moving.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>With increasing excitement, the chums
pressed forward and in a few moments Frank
stepped out of the passage into another cave.
This was the largest cave of all, an enormous
underground vault, and even the flashlight
beams failed to reveal the rocky walls and
ceiling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The floor was rough and broken fragments
of rock were strewn about.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Watch your step,” warned Frank, as he
made his way across the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others had flashlights and the floor was
well illuminated as the boys slowly picked their
way among the rocks. The far wall of the huge
cavern was still invisible.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is a whopper!” said Joe, in an awed
whisper.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank stopped, with a murmur of annoyance.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s the matter?” asked Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My flashlight. It’s on the blink.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Vainly, Frank tried to coax a gleam from the
refractory instrument. It was no use. He put
the light in his pocket.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll have to fix it to-morrow,” he said. “It
won’t work any more to-night by the looks of
things.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Here’s mine,” offered Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Frank declined.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No thanks. One of you chaps take the lead
for a while. I can follow easily enough.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe took the lead, as Frank suggested, and
the little party moved on again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was rough going. The floor of the cave
became piled high with rocks, evidently from
cave-ins that had occurred in times past; in
other parts it was pitted with little gullies and
holes. In trying to avoid these, the chums
gradually became separated.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank stumbled along behind. He felt the
loss of his flashlight, but said nothing, relying
on finding his way by the radiance provided by
the lights carried by the others.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Soon, however, the three lights became scattered.
Joe had gone to one side to avoid a huge
boulder; Chet had gone to the other side and encountered
a pit that prevented him from returning
to Joe’s trail; Biff had tried to follow
Chet and had blundered into a labyrinth of
rocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank stood uncertainly for a moment, then
called out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re getting separated. Wait for me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The walls of the great cave flung back the
echoes time and again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He heard Joe shout:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where are you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Had it not been for the glow of Joe’s light
he would never have known where the voice
came from because the echoes confused him,
and the tones seemed to come from all parts
of the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank realized that his own shouts would
cause the same confusion to the others.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t move around!” he called. “I’ll head
toward one of the lights.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But evidently his order was misunderstood,
for one of the lights began to move erratically
through the darkness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank went forward. He blundered against
a rock and fell, bruising his knees. He got to
his feet and went on, still in the direction of the
nearest glow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was confused by the moving lights. Had
his own flashlight not failed him this would not
have happened.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Suddenly, he stumbled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He lurched forward. His foot groped wildly
for the firm rock, but there was nothing to stop
his plunge. He had fallen into a pit.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Straight down through the blackness he hurtled,
with a wild cry of terror.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others heard that cry. They heard a far-off
crash, and then the clatter of falling rock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe was the first to shout.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Frank!” he called.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no answer. The echoes rang back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although the other boys shouted time and
again there was no answer from Frank Hardy.
They searched frantically, casting the beams of
their lights here and there, but they found no
trace of him.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch13'>CHAPTER XIII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Stolen Supplies</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>The</span> other boys searched for nearly an hour,
but Frank Hardy seemed to have disappeared
literally into the bowels of the earth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>With only their flashlights to illuminate the
huge cave, they found it difficult to conduct the
search with any degree of satisfaction. They
blundered here and there, not at all certain that
they were anywhere near the place where their
companion had disappeared.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They found several deep pits in the floor of
the cave, natural crevices and holes in the rock,
but although they shouted at the top of their
lungs they heard no answering cry from below.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He must have fallen down one of these
holes, that’s certain,” Joe declared. “I’m sure
we haven’t missed any.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why doesn’t he call back then?” said Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the glow of the flashlights the boys glanced
at one another anxiously. Joe expressed the
thought that the others were afraid to put into
words.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he can’t.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you think he may be dead?” asked Chet
quietly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll hope not,” sighed Joe. “But when
he doesn’t answer, things don’t look any too
bright. Any of these crevices may be hundreds
of feet deep, for all we know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It will be a terrible end to our trip if anything
like that has happened.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not much use waiting for morning,” declared
Biff. “This cave is just as dark in the
daytime as it is right now. I sure wish we had
a few more flashlights.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Or more powerful ones. We can’t see very
far down the crevices in the rocks, with these
lights.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys talked in low tones. They were
awed by the thought of what might have happened
to Frank Hardy. In their ears still rang
that last dreadful cry and they could still hear
the crashing of rocks as their companion hurtled
into the depths. Even now his mangled
body might be lying in some subterranean pit
from which it would be impossible to recover it.
Joe shuddered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They listened in vain for some faint cry. But
there was nothing but the echoes of their own
voices.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We won’t give up for a while yet,” said
Joe, with as much steadiness of voice as he
could muster. “We’ll search around every pit
and hole we can find. I <span class='it'>can’t</span> believe he was
killed!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Keeping close together, the lads slowly
crossed the floor of the cave. When they
reached an opening in the rocks they directed
the beams of their three flashlights into the
shadowy depths, thus gaining more radiance
than had they been searching singly. Then
they yelled and shouted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no reply. The flashlights revealed
only jagged walls of rock. There was no sign
of Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>On to the next crevice. This, fortunately,
was not deep, but although the lights revealed
the bottom and although they played the triple
beams along every inch of the floor of the subterranean
ravine, there was no sight of a crumpled
figure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Patiently, they searched the cave, but at last
they were forced to admit that they were at a
standstill.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not much use going any farther just now,”
sighed Joe. “We need more light.” He sat
down moodily on a rock and buried his face in
his hands.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wish we had never followed that fellow
who was in the cave,” said Chet. “Chances
are, it has cost Frank his life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not giving up hope yet,” Joe declared.
“There’s a chance that he might have been
knocked unconscious by his fall, and if we can
only reach him in time we may be able to save
him. But these flashlights aren’t much help.
We’re just groping around in the dark.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have an idea,” offered Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What is it?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s build a fire. It might light up the cave
enough to show us what we are doing.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How can we light a fire?” asked Chet. Then
he looked up sharply. “You’re right, Biff. I
forgot that we have lots of wood in the outside
cave.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s not a bad stunt!” declared Joe hopefully.
“With a roaring bonfire in here we’ll be
able to light up the whole place and see what
we’re about.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s get at it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff’s plan seemed valuable, but before leaving
the cave in search of wood, the boys made a
last attempt to locate their missing comrade,
by shouting loudly. However, as before, there
was not the faintest reply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They made their way out into the next cave,
and from there into the outer cavern where
they had originally taken refuge from the
storm. They were harassed by the thought that
death might have overtaken their missing companion,
and they said scarcely a word as they
went about the business of gathering driftwood
for the proposed bonfire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Each of them took an armful of the wood and
they were just about to return through the
caves again when Joe noticed something that
caused him to drop his wood on the floor with
a clatter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s wrong now?” asked Chet, in surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s funny,” Joe returned. “I was sure
we left our supplies right near this woodpile.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So we did,” Biff assured him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re not here now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They must be. I piled them there myself,
all except a few that I put over by the other
wall.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come and see for yourself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe turned the beam of his flashlight on the
place where Biff had stacked the greater part
of their supplies. A loaf of bread and a tin
of sardines lay on the rock, but that was all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff’s astonishment was so great that he
could scarcely speak for a moment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then he gasped:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’ve been stolen!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All of ’em?” demanded Chet, in alarm. The
loss of their provisions would be a serious matter
to him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where did you put the rest of the stuff,
Biff?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff turned his flashlight on the opposite wall.
There the light revealed a few bundles and tins,
the rest of the supplies.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, they’re safe, at any rate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But where are the others? They can’t be
stolen. They were here when we went to sleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Must have been stolen while we were in the
other caves,” declared Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But who could have taken them?” exclaimed
Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The chap who woke us up. I’ll bet he didn’t
go into the other caves at all, or if he did he
just hid himself until we passed. Then he came
out and stole our food.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps that’s what he came for in the first
place,” suggested Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Solemnly, the lads looked from the loaf of
bread and the tin of sardines on the floor of the
cave to the few things on the other side.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He sure didn’t leave much. This means
we’ll have to go back to the village,” said Chet,
a bit impatiently.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We can’t take time to worry about that
now,” Joe reminded him. “We have to keep
up our search for Frank.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s right,” agreed Biff. “It’s tough to
lose our food; but we have enough to last us another
day, anyway, and it’s more important to
get Frank back than our supplies.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Of course it is,” agreed Chet soberly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys picked up their firewood again and,
with Joe in the lead, went into the second cave,
then on into the cavern where their chum had
vanished. As they trudged on through the darkness,
following the gleam of the flashlights,
Chet and Biff wondered vainly about the thief
who had disturbed them and robbed them. Joe’s
agonized thoughts circled about his vanished
brother.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch14'>CHAPTER XIV<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Captain Royal</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>When</span> the three boys reached the cave where
they had last seen Frank Hardy they piled the
driftwood in a heap close by one of the pits in
the floor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were surprised at the number of holes
and crevices they had discovered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a wonder we weren’t all killed,” said
Chet. “We were all prowling around this cave
without any idea of the danger.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a good place to stay out of,” Joe remarked.
“But first of all we’ll try to get Frank
out of it too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was trying to be hopeful, but it was difficult.
The ominous silence since his brother’s
disappearance had been none too encouraging.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They lit the fire. In a short time, the flames
flared high and a flickering radiance illuminated
the cave, revealing the damp ceiling high above,
the clammy walls in the distance, and the rough
floor, seamed and pitted with cracks and holes
in the rock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Methodically, they resumed their search, investigating
each of these gigantic crevices. But
in spite of all their shouts, in spite of the fact
that they were enabled to make a more thorough
search now that the cave was not as dark as it
had been, in spite of the fact that Joe even descended
one of the shallower pits on the chance
that Frank might be lying unconscious at the
bottom, their search was in vain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid it’s no use,” said Biff finally.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hate to give up!” declared Joe. “And
yet—we’ve done all we can.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Better have some sleep and try again to-morrow,”
Chet suggested. “Frank is either
unconscious or—or dead. Some of these pits
seem terribly deep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe realized that the advice was reasonable.
They were all very tired and in no condition to
continue the search. As Chet said, if Frank
were alive or conscious, he would have shouted
to them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right,” agreed Joe. “We’ll go back to
the other cave. But I’m afraid I’ll never be
able to sleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have a rest, anyway. Then we’ll come
back. If we still can’t find him we’ll go back
to the village and get some men to help us with
ropes and big searchlights. We’ll never go
back to Bayport until we find out what has happened
to him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Disconsolately, the boys turned away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were almost at the entrance of the second
cave when they heard a faint sound.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe wheeled about.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What was that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They listened. The sound was repeated. It
was like a distant cry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Somebody calling!” declared Biff excitedly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It must be Frank!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys stood quite still and listened for a
repetition of the call. It came again, muffled
and far away, but unmistakably a human voice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>With one accord, they turned and ran back
into the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Frank!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They hurried across the treacherous floor in
the direction of the sound. It was clearer now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Joe! Joe!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They recognized Frank’s voice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The call came from a part of the cave that
they had not searched carefully. Joe shouted
back excitedly:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We hear you, Frank! Call again, so we’ll
know where to find you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Again came the faint shout. It guided them
toward a pit that was almost hidden from view
by a huge boulder. It was one of the few pits
that they had overlooked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Evidently Frank had seen the reflection of
their searchlights, for he shouted weakly:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Right over here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At the edge of the pit, they looked down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There, just a blur in the gloom, they distinguished
a figure. Frank was standing up, leaning
against the side of the rocky shaft, just a
few yards below.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet had brought with him a length of stout
rope and he quickly flung one end of this down
into the pit.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have you out of there in no time.
Boy, but it’s good to hear your voice again!”
There was heartfelt relief in his tones.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank explained that the sides of the pit were
too steep to enable him to make his way to the
surface without assistance. However, with the
aid of the rope, and with Joe and his chums
pulling lustily, he was soon hauled to the top.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As he scrambled up out of the pit, the others
noticed, in the glow of the fire, that he had a
nasty gash across his temple.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re hurt!” said Joe, when the first exclamations
of enthusiasm and delight had died
down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m all right now,” Frank assured them.
“I’m a little dizzy yet, and weak, but it isn’t
serious.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What happened?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I fell down the pit, and I struck my head
against the rocks. It must have knocked me
out for a few minutes but when I came to, I
began to shout.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A few minutes!” exclaimed Chet. “We’ve
been hunting for you over an hour.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank looked incredulous.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“An hour! Why, I thought I had been unconscious
only a little while.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others then told him of the search they
had made and of their anxiety on his account.
However, they were so relieved at seeing him
safe and sound again that they soon forgot the
serious side of the affair and Chet remarked
that Frank had been lucky in having an hour’s
sleep while the rest had been shouting their
lungs out. They trooped out of the cavern
back toward their own cave, and Joe told his
brother about the missing supplies.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s queer,” said Frank. “Were they
stolen while we were in the big cave?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It looks like that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But the man who woke us up went into the
big cave ahead of us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He may have hidden and we might have
passed him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s possible. Perhaps it wasn’t a man
at all. The thief might have been an animal.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The others had not considered this explanation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No use crying over spilled milk now,” declared
Frank. “We’d just better go back to
sleep and hunt for our supplies in the morning.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>When morning came, a diligent search of the
cave failed to reveal any clues that would help
the boys trace the thief, whether man or animal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re out of luck, that’s all,” concluded
Frank finally. “Our friend must have fooled
us nicely. Perhaps he came into the cave to
steal supplies in the first place, then slipped
past us in the darkness when we went to look
for him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And helped himself,” said Chet gloomily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He left something, at any rate. We won’t
starve to-day, and if our grub runs out we can
go back to the village for more. We’ll make
the best of it. Let’s start exploring the shoreline.
That’s what we came for.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The matter of the stolen supplies was thus
dismissed, although Chet was very gloomy for
some time as he thought of the food that had
been taken, notably a tin of strawberry jam, of
which he was inordinately fond.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The storm was over, and from the cave they
could see the sun shining on the blue waters of
the sea. They lost no time in eating breakfast
and then hastening down to the beach. Although
they were dubious as to the advisability
of leaving their remaining supplies in the cave,
they reasoned that as it was impossible to take
the provisions everywhere with them, they
would have to run the risk of further theft.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Out on the beach, beneath the lowering black
cliffs, they forgot the unfortunate beginning of
their quest in the delight of the keen, salty
air and the cool breeze from the sea. The sandy
shore wound about the face of a great bluff of
black rock and when the lads had skirted this
precipice they were confronted by a dark opening
at the base of the cliff just a few yards
away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Another cave!” exclaimed Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet gave a cheer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s investigate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They advanced on the cave, but when they
were just in front of the entrance they halted
with exclamations of surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Tacked on a board stuck in the sand beside
the cave mouth was a tattered fragment of
paper. On it, in black letters scrawled with a
heavy pencil, they read:</p>

<p class='line' style='text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;'>NO TRESPASSING.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys looked at this sign in astonishment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“By order of the chief of police,” murmured
Chet, with a grin.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks as if somebody has been here before,”
Biff observed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps somebody just put up the sign for
a joke. Let’s take a peep inside.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank advanced toward the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But at the entrance he paused. He peered
into the gloomy beyond and then turned back to
his companions.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The sign isn’t a joke,” he said quietly.
“Somebody lives here!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“<span class='it'>Lives</span> there!” ejaculated Chet incredulously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come and see for yourself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Curiously, the lads crowded into the entrance
of the cave. They saw at a glance that Frank
was right. In the gloomy interior of the cave
they could see a crude table, a mattress with
blankets, and on a ledge of rock was an improvised
cupboard consisting of an old soap box.
That the cave had only been recently tenanted
they saw by the fact that the box held some
canned goods and some other provisions that
had certainly not been there long.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I’ll be switched!” declared Joe. “We
have a neighbor.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We certainly have. And if I’m not mistaken,
here he comes now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was looking down the beach. The
others turned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What a queer duck he is!” exclaimed Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll say he is!” ejaculated Chet Morton.
“Where do they get ’em like that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Coming around a jutting promontory of rock
was a queer old man, clad in fisherman’s garb,
with a huge straw hat on his head. He had not
seen them as yet. He was singing, in a high-pitched
voice, and even at that distance they
could make out the words:</p>


          <div class='poetry-container' style=''>
          <div class='lgp'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<div class='stanza-outer'>
<p class='line0'>“I’m Captain Royal, of the King’s Navee,</p>
<p class='line0'>And I want two lumps of sugar in my tea.”</p>
</div>
</div></div> <!-- end poetry block --><!-- end rend -->

<div><h1 id='ch15'>CHAPTER XV<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Old Sailor</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Having</span> concluded this verse, the strange old
man elevated one arm above his head and
danced a couple of steps of a sailor’s hornpipe.
In the middle of this he caught sight of the
boys, and came to an abrupt stop.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ahoy!” he shouted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ahoy!” cried Chet promptly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man in the straw hat advanced.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When did you come ashore?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just this morning.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old man drew closer. He was an odd
figure, in the flopping straw hat, with oilskins
much too big for him, and as he came up to the
mouth of the cave he looked closely at the lads,
then smiled and extended his hand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m Captain Royal,” he announced. “You
should have saluted, but I guess you didn’t
know.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>To make up for this breach of etiquette, the
boys saluted, and this appeared to gratify the
old gentleman immensely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re landlubbers, eh?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose so,” admitted Frank, with a
smile.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we can’t all be sailors. It isn’t often
people come to see me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you live here?” asked Joe, indicating
the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is where I live when I’m ashore. I’m
resting up between cruises just now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old man sat down on the sand and fanned
himself with the straw hat, for it was a warm
morning and the sun was strong. The boys
looked at him curiously. In spite of his garb,
he did not look like a sea-faring man; his skin
was tanned, it is true, but it was not the deep,
mahogany tan of one who has lived for years
in many climes. His voice was high-pitched
and his expression was mild. But the boys
were old enough to know that one cannot always
judge by appearances.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What are your names?” asked the old man.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lads introduced themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Glad to meet you,” returned Captain Royal.
“It ain’t often I have visitors. I get used to
being alone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s lonely enough here,” agreed Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It isn’t bad. Not half as lonely as the time
I got marooned in the South Seas.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys looked at him with new interest.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You were marooned?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aye. It was when I was in charge of a destroyer
cruising the South Seas a good many
years ago. We landed for water on a little
island that you won’t find on any of the maps.
It was a hot day—very hot. Must have been
over a hundred degrees in the shade. So while
my men were loading the water on my boat I sat
down in the shade of a cactus tree. Before I
knew it, I was asleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And they went away and left you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They did.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But you were the captain!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess they thought I was in my cabin, and
of course none of ’em dared disturb me. When
I woke up, the ship was gone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gosh!” exclaimed Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, sir, I didn’t know what to do. I was
like this here fellow Robinson Crusoe, that you
read about. But I had to make the best of it,
so I fixed myself up a little house and I lived
there for nearly six months, all by myself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Didn’t the boat come back for you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They couldn’t find the island again. It
wasn’t marked on the maps. The engineer
couldn’t set a course back to the island. Anyway,
the quartermaster who took charge of the
schooner after they found I was gone, didn’t
want to find me, I guess. He wanted my job.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How did you find anything to eat when you
were on the island?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, there was lots to eat. Cocoanuts and
prunes and bananas and grapefruit and figs
and all sorts of fruit. There was plenty of
mud-turtles on the island, so I had mock turtle
soup whenever I wanted it. I tell you, I lived
high. Once in a while I had my little troubles,
of course, and two or three times I had some
mighty narrow escapes. There was a rhinoceros
came after me once.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A rhinoceros!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aye! He swam up to the island one day. I
was just in for my morning swim when I saw
his big ears flapping and heard him give a roar.
I tell you, I was scared. He came surging
through the waves and up on the beach and he
chased me clean up a pineapple tree. I had to
stay there for three days until he went away,
and I had nothing but pineapples to eat. I was
never so sick of pineapples in my life. I’ve
never been able to eat one since.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank glanced at his brother. He was beginning
to suspect that Captain Royal was having
some fun at their expense. The old man rattled
on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The rhinoceros finally swam out to sea
again and I was able to come down. I lived on
that island for half a year, hoping that my warship
would come back, but it never did. So I
made myself a raft and loaded it up with water
and fruit and finally sailed away. It took me
more than a month of steady sailing before I
finally reached land off the coast of South
America. By jing, I was glad when I saw the
Andes Mountains again. I landed at a port
where there was a ship, and I’m swizzled if it
wasn’t my own boat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Your own boat!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes sir. I could hardly believe my eyes.
So I come on board, and they were going to
throw me off.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why?” asked Chet, in surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They didn’t know me. You see, I hadn’t
been able to shave when I was on the island,
and I’d grown a beard. So nobody knew me
and they wouldn’t believe me when I said I was
their captain. But I told them to lend me a pair
of scissors and a razor and I took off that beard
and stepped out on deck, and by jing they all
saluted me then, I can tell you. I made the
quartermaster walk the plank and we all sailed
back to San Francisco.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That was quite an adventure,” said Frank
politely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I’ve had many things happen to me.
I’ve been in a lot of battles, too. Of course,
I’ve retired from the navy now, for there isn’t
the excitement nowadays.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Were you in the Spanish-American war?”
asked Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was all through it from start to finish. I
had a narrow escape during that war. I took
my ship out one night off the Philippines to
see if I could catch a Spanish warship that I’d
heard was in the neighborhood, and we sighted
her just about midnight, not half a mile away.
So we pumped a couple of shots over her keel
and she turned and went steaming away to the
north. Well, I gave chase, but the Spaniard
was fast and it was three hours before we came
alongside. We were just going to board the
ship when the steward came up to me and said
some other boats were coming up. There was.
Five of ’em. All Spanish.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What did you do?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What could I do? I couldn’t run away. I
told my men to get on board the Spaniard and
I took all the sailors from that boat and made
’em surrender and put ’em on my ship. So the
other boats didn’t dare fire at my ship for fear
of killing their own men and they didn’t dare
fire at the boat I was on for fear of sinking
their own ship. So we opened fire on them and
they didn’t dare fire a shot back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That was mighty clever.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Wasn’t it? I sunk two of the Spaniards
and the others surrendered and I brought ’em
back to Manila Bay. I was given a medal for
that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal looked very pleased with himself,
and he dug into a capacious pocket and
produced a plug of tobacco, taking a huge bite.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, I’ve had experiences,” he said, wagging
his head. “Are you going to be around here
long?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just a few days.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’d invite you to come and live in my cave,
only there ain’t much room.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We have a cave of our own, farther down
the shore.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s fine. I’ll call and see you some
time.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll be glad to have you do that,” said
Joe cordially.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The old man got up and walked toward the
entrance of his own cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come on inside,” he urged. “You’d better
stay and have some dinner with me. I was
out fishing this morning and I caught quite a
few fish. As soon as they’re ready, we’ll sit
down and eat.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys accepted the invitation eagerly, and
trooped into the cave of Captain Royal. Chet
looked around hungrily, for the fish, but there
was none in sight. The old man invited them to
sit down, and they squatted in the sand, there
being no chairs or boxes.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are you the only person living around here,
Captain Royal?” asked Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The only one. I thought I was the only person
who knew about these caves until I saw
you lads here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There was some one visited us last night—”
began Frank. Then he hesitated in surprise,
for Captain Royal leaped to his feet, a look of
fear on his face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s that?” he exclaimed. “Some one
visited you! Don’t tell me there’s some one
else around here!”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch16'>CHAPTER XVI<br/> <span class='sub-head'>“Go Away!”</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>“Some</span> one came into our cave last night and
stole most of our supplies,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A man!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We didn’t see him, but it could scarcely
have been an animal of any kind, for he carried
off a whole box of food.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You don’t say!” exclaimed Captain Royal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And we found a footprint too,” added Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal shook his head in amazement.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is very strange. I had no idea there
was any one else around this part of the coast.
You can see for yourself that it is hard to get
here, and if there were any one else around I
would be sure to see him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And you’ve seen no one?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not a living soul, besides yourselves. And
he stole your supplies?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nearly all of them. He left us some canned
beans, a loaf of bread, some butter and some
coffee; but that’s about all.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Canned beans! It’s a long time since I’ve
had any canned beans. Perhaps we could
trade.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s not a bad idea,” said Chet. “There
are other things we need.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have some dried fish here,” said the captain.
“I have fish and a case of eggs and some
other things. Go get those beans and we’ll
trade.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet hastened back to the other cave and returned
in due time with the cans of beans, which
the captain accepted with considerable delight.
In exchange, the boys received some fish and
two dozen eggs.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I got the eggs off a boat yesterday,” explained
Captain Royal, “and I’ve been thinking
ever since that it was foolish of me to buy
a whole case, because they mightn’t keep. I’d
rather have canned beans any day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the exchange was effected, their host
suddenly became silent and sat for a long time
looking gloomily at the sand. The boys were
wondering when the promised fish dinner was
to put in its appearance. Apparently, Captain
Royal had forgotten all about his invitation.
Suddenly he looked up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” he demanded curtly, “what are you
hanging around for, boys?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They gazed at the man in surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why—you asked us to stay,” stammered
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” returned the old man tartly, “but I
didn’t ask you to stay all day.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys were so astonished at this sudden
change of front that for a moment they thought
the captain was joking. But they soon learned
that he was in earnest, for he got to his feet
with a mutter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Must I order you out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, what’s the matter?” inquired Joe.
“Have we offended you in any way?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Be off with you! Go away! Get out of here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys got to their feet, vastly surprised.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Go away!” repeated Captain Royal, advancing
on them with a threatening gesture.
“Clear out. I prefer to be alone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, certainly,” said Frank. “We had no
idea we were disturbing you, Captain.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t argue. Get out. By jing, I’ve had
enough people bothering me lately and I’m not
going to stand for it any longer. I thought
when I found this cave that people would leave
me alone, and now I am annoyed by a pack of
meddlesome boys. Go away!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Without further ado, the lads retreated from
the cave. Captain Royal stood in the entrance,
shaking his fist at them angrily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Clear out of here!” he stormed. “Don’t let
me catch you around this cave again or it will
be the worse for you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then he wheeled about abruptly and disappeared
into the darkness of the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys looked at one another in amazement.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Can you beat that!” exclaimed Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s wrong with the old coot, anyway?”
demanded Biff. “Has he gone crazy?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t understand it,” said Frank. “One
minute he invites us to stay for dinner, and in
the next breath he orders us away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe tapped his head significantly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think he’s a little bit off his head.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps it’s the heat,” volunteered Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He is certainly a queer old codger,” Biff
declared. “I don’t know what to make of him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys went back down the beach toward
their own cave. Fortunately, before he started,
Chet had had enough presence of mind to pick
up the provisions they had obtained from the
old man, so the boys were so much to the good,
at any rate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s crazy,” insisted Joe. “Those stories
he told us were the wildest yarns I ever heard
in my life. I wonder if he thought we were
simple enough to believe them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“As if anybody didn’t know that a rhinoceros
couldn’t swim the ocean!” scoffed Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And pineapples that grow on a tree!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think he’s ever been a sailor at all,”
Frank declared. “His naval terms were certainly
mixed. He called his ship a destroyer
and a warship and a schooner and didn’t seem
to notice the difference. And he said the quartermaster
was in charge after he left the
ship.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And everybody knows they don’t make people
walk the plank nowadays.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“His stories were as full of holes as a sieve.
But I don’t know whether he told them just
for the fun of stuffing us or just because he is
clean crazy and doesn’t know any better.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys discussed Captain Royal and his
eccentric behavior all the way back to their
cave, and agreed that if the old gentleman was
not a lunatic he was at least slightly unbalanced.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The very fact that he lives away off here
all by himself proves it,” insisted Joe. “No
man in his right mind would live in a cave down
in this lonely spot. I wonder if he was the
man who came and stole our supplies last
night.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I thought of that and I took a look around
his cave, but there was no sign of any of our
stuff. Besides, he seemed much surprised when
we told him there was some one else hanging
around.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He might have been smart enough to act
as though he were surprised. Perhaps he had
our provisions hidden away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But why would he want to trade with us?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Because he’s crazy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lads went back to their own cave and
then went for a swim in the surf, forgetting
Captain Royal in their enjoyment of the stimulating
salt water. In spite of the generally
rocky nature of the coast the beach in front
of their cave was sandy and sloped gently into
the water, providing an ideal bathing place.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the swim was over they prepared lunch
from what limited food they had on hand, and
in the afternoon they went back down the shore
again to resume their tour of exploration.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They did not see the captain again, although
they passed his cave, keeping at a respectful
distance so as not to incur his wrath. Farther
down the shore they found a series of large
caves, and some of these they explored. However,
they found nothing of interest, although
they spent the entire afternoon prowling
about the caverns. At sundown they returned
footsore and weary, to their own headquarters.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After supper they sat about their campfire
chatting, but Chet and Biff were so tired that
their heads soon began to nod and they decided
to retire for the night. Joe would have done
likewise, but Frank asked him to sit up a while
longer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Biff and Chet were soon snoring, and not
until then did Frank broach the subject on his
mind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you notice an expression Captain Royal
used several times when he was talking to
us?” he asked his brother.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe reflected.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t say that I noticed anything in particular,”
he confessed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t you remember that he said ‘by jing’
now and then?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe looked up, startled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now I remember! Yes, he did say that.
And ‘by jing’ is the very expression—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The very expression Evangeline Todd said
her missing brother used so often!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s a fact!” exclaimed Joe. “And now
that I come to think of it, I remember his shoelaces.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They were untied.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And Todham Todd had a habit of going
about with his shoelaces untied too!”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch17'>CHAPTER XVII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Man on the Shore</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>The Hardy</span> boys looked at one another
solemnly in the glow of the campfire.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you think Captain Royal and Todham
Todd are one and the same man?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What do you think of it yourself?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It certainly looks strange. But how <span class='it'>could</span>
this queer old chap be Todham Todd? How
would the college professor get away down
among these caves, and what would be his
idea in passing himself off as a sea captain?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was thoughtful.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Stranger things have happened. You remember
that Evangeline Todd suggested that
her brother might have lost his memory. He
was always more or less eccentric, no doubt,
and if he was suffering from amnesia there
is no telling where he might go or what he
might do.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s mighty strange if we have run across
him in this place. Perhaps it’s just a coincidence
that Captain Royal says ‘by jing’ once
in a while. As for having his shoelaces untied,
he seems pretty sloppy anyway, and that
would be only natural.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes, there’s every chance in the world
that Captain Royal is simply an eccentric old
tar. I agree with you there. Just the same,
we can’t afford to overlook the chance that
he <span class='it'>might</span> be Todham Todd.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How are we going to find out?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If we asked him, he would deny it, certainly.
But perhaps if we could talk to him and ask
a few questions he might give himself away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If he has lost his memory he would not remember
anything to give away.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hadn’t thought of that,” admitted Frank.
“Still, my plan is worth trying, don’t you
think?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It certainly is. But do you think he’ll talk
to us at all, after what happened to-day?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he’s forgotten all about it by now.
He might be as nice as pie if we went back.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, he seems a rather changeable old boy,”
laughed Joe. “And perhaps if he isn’t around
we might find some clue in that cave of his.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good idea. We’ll make a try at it to-morrow.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you think we should tell Chet and
Biff?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think so. Not just yet. After all,
they don’t know about the Todd affair, and if
we find out that our suspicions are all wrong
there’ll be no harm done and they’ll be none
the wiser.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But how can we question him if they’re
with us?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll make some excuse to get away by
ourselves. Of course, we may be disappointed.
The more I think of it the more impossible it
seems that Todham Todd should actually be
living here. But it is strange that he hasn’t
been found before this if he is living in any
town or city where people would meet him and
talk about him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Dad said he was traced as far as Claymore
and there the trail vanished. Claymore isn’t
very far from this coast.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s right. He may have wandered down
to these caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How about the shooting and the mysterious
lights we were warned about?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank laughed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, as to that,” he said, “I think Captain
Royal has just been having a little fun at the
expense of the people around here. Perhaps
he is trying to keep people from finding out
too much about him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we’ll find out all we can, anyway.
He can’t scare us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Having decided to investigate the eccentric
old gentleman further, the Hardy boys rolled
themselves up in their blankets and went to
sleep. Frank hardly dared hope that his surmise
was correct and that in Captain Royal
they had discovered the missing college professor,
but he was convinced that the old man
was not a sailor, in spite of his claims, and the
circumstances of the exclamation “by jing”
and the untied shoelaces, slender as the clues
were, led him to believe that they were at least
on a trail worth following.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the boys awakened next morning they
found the sea hidden by a dense fog. It was
damp and cold and the weather put all idea
of further exploration of the coast out of their
heads.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not going to wander among the rocks
in this fog,” declared Chet emphatically. “If
it got worse we’d have a fine time finding our
way back here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks to me like a good morning for fishing,”
said Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet greeted this suggestion with enthusiasm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s the brightest idea you’ve had in
years. We brought lots of tackle with us, thank
goodness, and there’s a high rock over there
that hangs over deep water. Perhaps we could
catch a whale or so for lunch.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe saw their opportunity. They
encouraged their two chums to go fishing. As
for themselves, they said they would go down
to Captain Royal’s cave and see if the old gentleman
was in a better humor than he had been
the previous day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re welcome,” said Chet. “I’ve had
enough of that old lad’s society to last me the
rest of my life. He’ll probably set his dog
on you, if he has one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t see any dog there yesterday,”
grinned Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, he’ll likely have a dogfish then. You
want to be careful. Better come fishing
with us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the Hardy boys persisted in their determination
to beard the lion in his den again, as
Frank put it, so Biff and Chet unpacked the
fishing tackle and made their plans for a morning’s
sport.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After breakfast they set out for the high
rock, Chet ironically asking the Hardy boys to
give his love to Captain Royal, and Frank and
Joe started off down the beach, delighted that
they had escaped so easily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They proceeded along the beach. The fog
hung low over the sea and it was so dense that
they could scarcely distinguish the outline of
the dark cliffs above.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not much chance of catching Captain
Royal away from home to-day, I’m thinking,”
said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, he’s likely sitting in his cosy little cave
beside a good fire. Well, he may feel more
like talking.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no breeze blowing, and the sea
lay calm and slatey beneath the fog. It was
a damp, clammy morning and the chill penetrated
to the bone. The boys felt rather guilty
at having left Chet and Biff, to set out on this
expedition of their own, but as Frank had
pointed out it was, after all, private business.
They well knew that if their suspicions were
incorrect, Chet would joke about the affair unmercifully.
It was better to keep it to themselves
until they were certain of their ground.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were just approaching the cliff that
hid Captain Royal’s cave from view when
Frank halted and peered through the fog at the
base of the rocks some distance ahead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you see somebody lying there, Joe?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe looked in the direction he indicated.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks like an old log—no, it moved!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Seems like a man sprawled on the sand.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps it’s Captain Royal. Maybe he
fell and hurt himself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys hastened across the rocks in the
direction of the figure on the shore.</p>

<p class='pindent'>As they drew nearer they saw that it was
indeed a man who lay sprawled at the base of
the rocks, apparently asleep. However, they
soon saw that it was not Captain Royal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps somebody fell off the cliffs from
above,” ventured Joe, as they hastened up to
the recumbent figure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank looked up. The cliff loomed high
above.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If he did, we can’t help him now. He
would be dead.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They came up to the man sprawled on the
sand. He was not dead. A large log near his
head suggested that he might have tripped.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s unconscious!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man’s face was turned away from them
and the boys could not distinguish his features.
He was roughly dressed and his clothes
were wet with fog.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just then the fellow stirred restlessly in his
sleep. He slowly turned his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the boys saw his face they gasped
with surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Carl Schaum!” exclaimed Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was indeed the escaped automobile thief,
the man who had stolen Frank’s motorcycle
the days the boys left Bayport.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch18'>CHAPTER XVIII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Prisoner</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Carl Schaum</span> did not awaken. His slumber
was too deep. He was quite senseless from
the effects of the liquor he had drunk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is luck!” exclaimed Frank. “I wonder
how he got here!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I suppose he’s hiding down in these caves
away from the police.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Something beside the bottle near the slumbering
man caught Frank’s eye. He bent forward
and examined it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a small package containing several
tins of meat, of the same variety the Hardy
boys and their chums had brought with them
on their expedition to the caves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s our thief!” Frank declared, with
conviction. “It was Carl Schaum who stole
the provisions from our cave.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There seemed little doubt that this was the
case. The evidence of the package of food was
conclusive.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What shall we do with him?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank groped in his pocket and produced
a length of stout cord.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll tie him up first. He’s an escaped
criminal and it’s our duty to turn him over to
the police.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What if he puts up a fight?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s too drunk. Anyway, we should be
more than a match for him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They looked at the man sprawled on the
ground. He was snoring loudly, quite oblivious
of his danger. Quietly, the Hardy boys
took up their positions, one on each side of
the fellow, and then with a quick movement
they turned him over on his back and pinned
his arms behind him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>To their surprise, Carl Schaum did not struggle.
He merely groaned in his sleep.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s dead drunk,” said Frank. “We won’t
have any trouble with him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Quickly he flipped the cord about Carl
Schaum’s wrists, and they bound the unconscious
man. Still he did not awaken. When
the boys were satisfied that their captive was
firmly trussed up they stood back to await further
developments.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Carl Schaum snored on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess we’d better wake him up,” said
Frank, with a mischievous grin.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It would take a cannon to waken him, by
the looks of things.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Good cold water should do the trick.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank went down to the shore, took off his
hat and dipped it in the sea. He hastened back,
the hat half full of water, and dashed it in
Carl Schaum’s face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was a splutter. Then Joe, anxious
to be in on the fun, filled his hat and flung a
copious supply of cold water at their captive.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Carl Schaum blinked, groaned, spluttered
again, and tried to sit up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This will make us even for stealing my
motorcycle,” said Frank, as he dashed more
water into the fellow’s face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And this,” said Joe, hastening up with
another hatful.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Carl Schaum was literally drenched. He
opened his eyes, then gave vent to a strangled
yell. Frank managed to fling another hatful
of water into his face before the boys decided
that their captive was sufficiently awake.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hey! What’s this?” roared Schaum indignantly.
He had just discovered that his wrists
were bound.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just a little joke,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Water was streaming down the man’s face.
He was thoroughly aroused by now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was still too dazed to recognize the Hardy
boys. As he sat on the beach, with his wet hair
down over his eyes, his clothes completely
soaked, he was a ridiculous object, and his
expression of mingled wrath and surprise
made it difficult for the lads to restrain their
laughter.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lemme go!” demanded Schaum, struggling
to release his wrists, without success.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nothing doing. You’re wanted back in
Bayport, Schaum, and that is where you’re
going.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Schaum gasped.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bayport!” he said, after a moment.
“Where’s that? I never heard of the place.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, yes you have. You escaped from the
Bayport jail, Schaum, and they’ll be glad to
see you back again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re crazy!” the rascal stormed. “I
was never in any jail!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How about the stolen automobiles on the
Shore Road?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And Gus Montrose and the others in the
gang?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Carl Schaum saw that his bluff had failed.
Then he looked more closely at the brothers.
He turned pale.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The Hardy boys!” he exclaimed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“At your service,” returned Joe, with a bow.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You see, we know what we’re talking about.
Get up, Schaum.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What are you going to do with me?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Get up!” repeated Frank. “We’re going
to take you out to the road and see that you’re
turned over to the authorities.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t do that,” whined Schaum. “Honest,
I never had anything to do with stealing them
cars. Let me go.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You were in the gang, and if they’ve been
punished, it isn’t fair that you should get off,”
insisted Frank. “You escaped from the jail
and if you are innocent you had nothing to
fear. You’d better get up and come with us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He prodded the prisoner firmly with the toe
of his heavy tramping shoe, and Schaum
struggled to his feet. He made many whining
pleas for mercy, but the Hardy boys were determined
that he should be sent back to Bayport
to answer for his participation in the
Shore Road automobile thefts.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve reformed,” sniveled Schaum. “I’ve
gone straight ever since I got out of jail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, you have!” laughed Frank. “How
about stealing my motorcycle while we were
in swimming?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Schaum looked confused.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I didn’t know it was your motorcycle.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It doesn’t matter whose motorcycle it was.
You meant to steal it. That doesn’t look as if
you’ve reformed very much. No, you must
come along with us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Unwillingly, Carl Schaum stumbled along
the beach with his two captors.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe did not have a very clear
idea of what they were to do with Schaum, now
that they had captured him. At first they
thought of keeping him in the cave, but Joe
pointed out that he might get away again and
that it would mean too much trouble keeping
guard over him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And he’d eat too much,” added Frank.
“That’s another little score we have to settle
with you, Schaum. You were in the cave the
other night and stole most of our provisions.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was hungry,” whined the prisoner. “I
only meant to borrow a little bit of food.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Borrowers don’t come sneaking around
when every one is asleep. Where are our provisions
now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’re in my own cave,” said Schaum
sullenly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Try to find it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All right,” returned Frank. “When you
go back to Bayport you will find yourself facing
an extra charge of robbery. We’ll lay a
complaint against you for stealing our provisions.
You’ve already admitted that you
took them, so it will go hard with you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Schaum wilted at this threat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Aw, don’t tell on me,” he begged. “Your
grub is all right. It’s in the cave that you’ll
find not ten feet from where I was lying on
the beach. I was walking last night and I must
have tripped.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m glad you’ve decided to be sensible,”
observed Frank. “We’ll go to the cave and get
our food when we come back. We didn’t know
you had a cave.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I came here just a little while before you
boys came.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did you bring your trunk?” asked Frank,
with a grin. “Anything in your cave you’d
like to take back to jail with you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Schaum shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No,” he answered shortly. “Just a pair
of blankets. You can have ’em.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“They’ll give you blankets in jail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys soon reached their own cave. There
was no sign of Chet and Biff, and they realized
that the fishers might be far off down the shore
by now, so they decided to take Carl Schaum
out to the road themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They clambered up the trail through the ravine
until they reached the top of the cliff, and
then they made their way over the rocks and
down the hillside back to the fisherman’s cottage.
The fisherman was at home, and when
he saw the little procession coming down the
path he rushed out, anxious to learn what had
happened. He was greatly excited when he
saw that the villainous-looking Carl Schaum
was bound.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you cotched the man who was firin’
off all the guns?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think this is he,” he said, remembering
that Schaum had reached the caves only
a short time in advance of their own arrival.
“But he’s almost as bad.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s he been doin’?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys explained why they had
captured Carl Schaum, and when the fisherman
learned that they were going to take their
captive out to the main road he promptly volunteered
the use of his car, an ancient and
decrepit flivver. The boys had been wondering
how they would get Schaum out to the road
by motorcycle, and the fisherman’s offer solved
this difficulty.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Accordingly, they all wedged themselves into
the ramshackle car and set out for the main
road, which they reached in due time. Frank
and Joe did not want to waste too much time
with Schaum, and they decided to wait in hope
that some passing motorist would take the fellow
in to the nearest police station.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In a short time a car came into sight and when
it came near, Frank stepped out into the road
and signaled the driver to stop. The automobile
slowed down.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man at the wheel looked at them curiously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then Frank gave an exclamation of delight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, he’s from Bayport!” he shouted to
Joe. “It’s Mr. Simms.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At the same moment, the driver recognized
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hello there, Hardy!” he exclaimed. “What
are you doing so far away from home?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe knew Mr. Simms, having met
him at the time of the solving of the Shore
Road mystery, because he was one of the automobile
owners who had suffered at the hands
of the car thieves. The very car Mr. Simms
was driving just then had been recovered by
the Hardy boys when they had found the automobiles
stolen by Gus Montrose, Carl Schaum
and the other members of the gang.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is luck!” exclaimed Frank. “How
would you like to take a passenger back to Bayport
with you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you want a ride?” asked Mr. Simms.
“Hop in.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not asking for myself. But our friend
here is wanted back in Bayport. Perhaps you
could take him in.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Simms looked doubtfully at Carl Schaum.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” he said slowly, “if he’s a friend
of yours, I suppose it’s all right—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had noticed that Schaum’s wrists were
tied.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank laughed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I was just joking. This is one of the fellows
who stole your car last month. Carl
Schaum—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh! The thief that escaped, eh?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. We ran across him down along the
shore, and we were anxious to turn him over
to the police again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Put him in the car,” said Simms grimly.
“I’ll put the rascal where he belongs.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Rejoiced at having the prisoner taken off
their hands so readily, the Hardy boys bundled
Schaum into the rear seat of the automobile.
They apologized to Mr. Simms for troubling
him, but the man assured them that it was no
trouble at all.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a pleasure,” he said. “I’ll see that he
doesn’t get away.” He glared at Carl Schaum.
“So you’re one of the scoundrels who stole my
car, are you? And you thought you were going
to escape a term in jail! You’ll have to be
mighty smart to do it then, for I’m going to
break a few speed records getting you back
to Bayport. I’m going to enjoy this trip.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He waved good-bye to the Hardy boys.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know how you caught him,” he
said; “but I’ll tell the Bayport police to give
you the credit. I’m certainly glad I came along
in time to drive this guy back to jail, where
he belongs.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>With that, he drove off and in a few minutes
he was carrying out his promise to break speed
records on the way back to Bayport, while the
helpless prisoner in the back seat was jounced
and bounced until his teeth rattled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe grinned.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess Carl Schaum won’t forget that ride
for a while.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Serves the rogue right!” declared the fisherman.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, let’s be getting back,” said Frank.
“The morning is almost gone and we haven’t
called on Captain Royal yet.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch19'>CHAPTER XIX<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Clippings</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Their</span> friend, the fisherman, was greatly interested
in the Hardy boys’ adventure with
Carl Schaum and wanted to know all the details
of the affair. Frank and Joe told him
why they had captured Schaum, and also told
him of the Shore Road automobile thefts, although
they modestly omitted any mention
of their own part in bringing the car thieves
to justice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When they arrived back at the cottage the
fisherman was anxious that they go in and continue
the chat, but the Hardy boys wanted to
return to the caves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Some other time,” they promised.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said the fisherman reluctantly, “if
you won’t come in, I suppose you won’t; but
you must come back and see me before you
leave these parts. You’re smart lads, cotchin’
that jailbird, and I’m sure he’s the fellow that’s
been performin’ all the monkeyshines down
around Honeycomb Caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe said nothing. It occurred to
them that possibly the fisher folk did not know
of Captain Royal’s presence in the vicinity and
they preferred to keep the secret to themselves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes,” said the man, wagging his head, “I
guess he was the chap, all right, even if you
don’t seem to think so.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He was a thief, at any rate,” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He stole your grub, you was sayin’. If you
need more, you’re welcome to anything I’ve got
here. It ain’t much, but your more’n welcome,”
said their hospitable friend.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys thanked him, but assured him that
Carl Schaum had been forced to divulge the
hiding place of the provisions. With great
glee they told how they had frightened him
into telling.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re all set for a few days’ stay now,”
said Frank. “I guess we won’t be bothered
any more.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys parted from the fisherman and ascended
the path up the hillside again. Up over
the rocks, along the cliff edge until they came
to the ravine, down the steep slope, and after
an arduous hour they were again at their cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet and Biff were nowhere to be seen, so
the Hardy boys assumed that they were still
fishing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“When we tell them all the adventures we’ve
had, they’ll be as mad as hops,” laughed Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve sure covered a lot of territory since
they last saw us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And the day isn’t over yet. We still have
Captain Royal to attend to.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was still damp and foggy as they went on
down the beach, and although it was midday the
mist hung so heavily over the sea that they
could see only a short distance ahead. It was
almost as dark as at dusk.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I believe the fog is growing worse,” remarked
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It certainly seems worse since we’ve got
down on the shore again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I hope Chet and Biff don’t get lost.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not much danger of getting lost around
here. It’s pretty hard to get far from the
ocean, and once you’re on the beach you just
have to keep walking until you find the caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys came to the place where they had
spied Carl Schaum unconscious.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s see if he was telling us the truth about
that cave of his,” Joe suggested. “We might
as well make sure that our provisions are safe.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s a cave here, all right. Look, I can
see it over by those big boulders.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So there is. Queer that we didn’t notice
it before. The rocks hide it from view unless
you stand right in front of it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Trust Carl to pick a good hiding place. If
he hadn’t made the mistake of wandering beyond
his own front door, he might be a free
man yet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It isn’t the first time that a thief has made
one fatal mistake.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys approached the entrance of the
cave. It was, as Joe had pointed out, almost
invisible from the beach, unless one happened
to look up when standing directly in front of
the opening, because a number of huge boulders
obscured it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Inside, they found unmistakable evidences of
human habitation.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There are our provisions!” exclaimed
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He pointed to a box that stood beside a few
blankets in a corner of the little cave. It was
filled with the food that Schaum had stolen
from them. Very little of it had been touched;
the robber had been given no time to dispose
of his loot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, I never expected to see <span class='it'>that</span> again,”
said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess it’s safe enough where it is. We
can pick it up on our way back from Captain
Royal’s.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How about these blankets? Schaum said
we could have them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank picked up one of the blankets. It
was heavy and of excellent quality.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll say he was mighty generous, letting us
have good blankets like these,” he declared.
“They seem brand new, too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If they are, there must be a catch in it
somewhere.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There is. Look!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank held out the blanket. Stamped into
the fabric was the name, “Hotel Bayport.”
The reason for Schaum’s sudden burst of generosity
was now clear.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No wonder he didn’t want to take them
with him. He knew that if the police laid eyes
on those blankets he’d have another charge
laid against him. He must have stolen them
from the hotel after he escaped from jail.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think he would take anything that wasn’t
nailed down,” said Joe. “Well, we can take
the blankets back with us and return them to
the hotel, at any rate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure. We’ll leave ’em here with the grub
until we’re ready to go back to our own cave.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys found nothing else worthy of attention
in Carl Schaum’s crude abode except
a revolver hidden beneath a rock near the blankets.
They appropriated this, to turn over to
the police when they should return to Bayport.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They departed, well satisfied with their visit.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Chet will give three cheers when he sees the
grub again. I don’t think he was very cheerful
about the thought of going on short rations
until we got new supplies,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wasn’t very cheerful about it myself,”
Joe admitted. “It makes me sore when I think
of Schaum stealing all that stuff. Why, one
man couldn’t eat it all in a month.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he intended to stay a month, or
even longer, if he could get away with it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, he might have left us more than he
did. I’m glad I was able to douse some water
in his face.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys were soon in sight of Captain
Royal’s cave. The gloomy opening was
barely visible through the lowering mist.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder if the old gentleman could be at
home, Joe.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No sign of life around, anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he’s asleep.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They made their way to the cave mouth,
cautiously. Still there was no sign of the captain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Better call him,” suggested Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They halted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Captain Royal!” shouted Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was no answer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I guess he’s not at home.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They called out Captain Royal’s name again,
but still there was no reply, so they ventured
close to the cave mouth and peeped inside. The
place was deserted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Shall we go in?” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure. We’ll take a look around.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They stepped inside the cave. Captain Royal
had evidently spent the night there, for his
bed was even untidier than it had been the
previous day.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he’s gone fishing,” said Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was looking about the cave and suddenly
his gaze fell on a small cupboard, consisting of
a box on a ledge of rock, in which he could see
a number of books. He gave a low whistle of
surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The worthy captain has a library,” remarked
Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s see what his taste in reading matter
is like.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank went over to the improvised cupboard
and picked up one of the books. It fell
open and a number of strips of paper fluttered
to the floor of the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank bent to pick up the papers. He looked
at them curiously.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Newspaper clippings!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We might get a clue about him from them,”
Joe suggested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the dim light, Frank scrutinized one of
the clippings. It was a despatch from Boston,
dated several months previous, and consisted
of an address on Egyptian civilization given
by a world-famous traveler who had spoken in
that city.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is uncommonly dull, if you ask me,”
said Frank at last, putting the clipping aside
and picking up another.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No mention of Todham Todd?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not that I can find.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe took one of the other clippings and the
boys perused them diligently, seeking some
mention of the missing college professor.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All the clippings were devoted to various
lectures that had been given by various speakers
in different parts of the country within recent
months.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Looks as if he was a lecturer, or had some
interest in lectures, at any rate,” Joe commented.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Patiently, they examined clipping after clipping,
but in none of them did they find any mention
of Todham Todd. A further search of the
cupboard, however, revealed a veritable mass
of papers, and the boys settled down to a thorough
study of them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s a queer kind of sailor, that’s sure,”
declared Frank. “I never heard of a sailor
who collected clippings about lectures.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The other papers were similar clippings, as
well as typewritten documents. When the boys
examined these documents in the hope of finding
some clue to the former activities of
Captain Royal, they found that they were
manuscripts of lectures on philosophy and other
topics. But still they found no mention of the
name of Todham Todd.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, whether he’s mentioned in these
papers or not, I’m sure that Captain Royal
and Todham Todd are the same man,” observed
Joe. “No sailor would ever carry all
this stuff around with him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It certainly looks peculiar,” his brother
agreed. “But there are some more papers yet.
We’ll look through them all. If he is Todham
Todd it’s hardly likely that he would carry
clippings about other men’s lectures and none
of his own.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Sheet after sheet, they perused. There were
lectures by visiting authors, lectures by big-game
hunters, lectures by Arctic explorers,
lectures by college professors, photographs of
lecturers.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He is certainly interested in lecturing.
Perhaps it’s just a coincidence. Crazy men
will do crazy things. Perhaps Captain Royal
just has a sort of lunatic streak that way,” said
Joe finally, when it seemed evident that none
of the clippings or documents bore any mention
of Todham Todd.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps you’re right. I hate to admit it,
though. I was sure we had stumbled on a red-hot
clue.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank scrutinized the last of the clippings.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Nothing about him in this one either. I
can’t figure it out. Beyond the fact that all
these stories deal with lectures, there is no connection
between them. They’re all by different
men and all on different subjects.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that moment Joe espied a small box close
by. He opened it, and out tumbled a second
mass of clippings.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gee, look at this!” he exclaimed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“More lectures?” questioned his brother,
with a sigh.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lectures? No!” shouted the younger
Hardy boy. “It’s a murder case! Look,
Frank!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re fooling!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But even as he spoke Frank Hardy scanned
the sheet of newspaper his brother held towards
him. There, in glaring headlines, were the
words</p>

<div class='lgc' style='margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;'> <!-- rend=';' -->
<p class='line'>BARTON BIXBY SHOT DOWN</p>
<p class='line'>Former Naval Officer Kills Old Friend</p>
<p class='line'>With a Shotgun</p>
<p class='line'>Police Follow Clues in Vain</p>
</div> <!-- end rend -->

<p class='pindent'>There followed a long account of a killing
that had taken place in Richmond three weeks
before. A certain Lieutenant Patwick had
murdered a former friend who had spoken ill
of him at a club. Patwick had then fled to parts
unknown. The lieutenant was said to be of a
nervous, high-strung temperament.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gosh! he may not be Todham Todd after
all,” remarked Frank. “He may be this Lieutenant
Patwick simply trying to conceal his
true identity.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Or else gone crazy because of his crime,”
added Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were several other clippings concerning
the crime. Evidently the perpetrator had
outwitted both police and detectives.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll have to look into this,” said Frank
soberly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You bet. For all we know—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe stopped speaking and thrust all the clippings
behind him. A shadow had darkened the
mouth of the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who is in there?” an angry voice bellowed.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch20'>CHAPTER XX<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Shotgun</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>So</span> quietly had the man approached the cave
mouth that the Hardy boys were taken completely
by surprise. They wheeled about.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There, in the entrance, stood Captain Royal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Evidently, it took him some time to become
accustomed to the dim light of the cave, for he
was peering intently at the boys, but with no
sign of recognition on his face.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s that?” he shouted impatiently.
“Answer me!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank gulped. Then, trying to achieve a
confident tone of voice, he said:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, hello, Captain. We just dropped in
for a visit.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Captain Royal was not appeased.</p>

<p class='pindent'>With a roar of wrath, he advanced into the
cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I know you now!” he bellowed. “I know
you. It’s those boys who were here yesterday.
Don’t deny it!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure!” said Joe. “It’s only us.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The captain came closer.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What are you doing in my place?” he demanded.
“Stealing, eh?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re not stealing,” returned Frank indignantly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes, you are!” Captain Royal was plainly
angry. “You came here to steal all my money
and my jewels. I know it! You waited until
I went out and then you sneaked in here to
rob me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now, Captain, be reasonable,” pleaded
Frank. “We just came here to have a little
talk with you. If we wanted to steal we would
have cleared out long ago.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You came to steal!” insisted the old man,
“Don’t tell me anything different. Why can’t
you leave an old man alone? I’ve never done
you any harm.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Certainly not. We had no intention of disturbing
you—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Just then Captain Royal caught sight of the
mass of clippings and papers. His face was
suddenly distorted with fury.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My papers!” he shrieked. “You’ve been
at my papers!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He made a sudden lunge toward the boys.
So quickly did he rush at them that neither
Frank nor Joe had a chance to escape. Captain
Royal grasped each lad by the collar.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ve been at my papers! My precious
papers! I knew you came here to steal something!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He shook them roughly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll teach you to come prowling around my
cave!” he roared. “I will teach you to look at
my papers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys struggled to free themselves,
but Captain Royal was stronger than he
looked, and he kept a tight grip on their collars.
Frank almost wriggled free, but the captain
tightened his grasp. As for Joe, he told his
chums later that “the old lad shook me until
my back teeth rattled.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The captain was raging and roaring almost
incoherently in a terrible outburst of wrath.
There was now little doubt in the minds of the
Hardy boys that the man was a lunatic. What
would happen to them at the hands of this
madman?</p>

<p class='pindent'>At first they had not taken Captain Royal’s
outburst seriously, but now Frank realized
that they might be in genuine danger.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He lashed out with his fists and dealt the captain
a blow in the ribs that brought a startled
grunt. At the same time, Joe wriggled to one
side and tried to trip the old gentleman. But
Captain Royal was alert and wary. He would
not let go, and although he lost his balance and
tumbled to the floor of the cave, he dragged the
boys with him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Break loose, Joe!” shouted Frank. “He
means business.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But this was more easily said than done.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The trio sprawled on the floor of the cave,
Frank and Joe fighting desperately to get out
of the clutches of their captor, but the old man
clung to their collars like grim death.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll teach you!” he panted. “I’ll shoot
both of you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>His words sent a thrill of fear through the
boys. They knew now that they were dealing
with a maniac and they realized that in his
present frame of mind, he was quite capable
of carrying out the threat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe had fallen in such a way that his collar
had become twisted, and with Captain Royal
still grasping it, he was almost choked. He
could not turn without increasing the throttling
pressure, so he was quite helpless. As
for Frank, in spite of his struggles, he was unable
to break the captain’s hold.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I have the better of you!” chuckled the old
man fiendishly. “You can’t get away from me.
Try to kill me, would you! I’m going to shoot
you both.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He began to struggle to his feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal was eying something on the
wall at the back of the cave. Following the direction
of his gaze, Frank saw something that
terrified him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a double-barreled shotgun!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ve got it loaded to the muzzle!” roared
Captain Royal, as he floundered about in his
efforts to get to his feet without losing his grip
on the boys. “I’ve always kept it loaded just
for prying thieves that come to steal my
papers.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He stood up and lurched across the cave,
dragging the boys with him. His intention was
clear. He meant to get the shotgun.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lads redoubled their efforts to escape.
By a concerted effort, they turned on him, striking
at him with their fists. Frank heard a ripping,
tearing sound and then he was suddenly
free. He staggered back, and the captain was
left holding a small fragment of his shirt in his
hand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank thought quickly. He must reach the
gun first. He leaped across the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Captain Royal was too quick for him.
Flinging Joe to one side so that he went stumbling
and then sprawled in the sand, the captain
reached the shotgun at a bound.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was just reaching for it when Frank came
at him from behind. Captain Royal tried to
fend the boy off, but Frank grappled with him
and dragged him away from the wall.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Get the gun, Joe!” he panted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe was just getting to his feet. Captain
Royal whirled about. His fist struck Frank
against the side of the head, and it caught
Frank off balance. He was knocked off his
feet. Captain Royal gave a yell of triumph,
and seized the shotgun.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It had been resting on a rocky ledge. Frank
was sprawled on the sand, entirely at the man’s
mercy. Joe was equally helpless. In another
moment they expected to hear the explosive
roar of the weapon.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now, I’ll teach you!” roared the captain,
dancing about in fury. “I’m going to shoot
the pair of you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank had a sudden idea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll keep him occupied, Joe,” he said in a
low voice. “Keep edging back until you get to
the cave mouth.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>A daring plan had formed in his mind. It
meant, as he thought, risking his own life, but
he was prepared to do this for the sake of his
younger brother.</p>

<p class='pindent'>If he could but distract Captain Royal’s attention
by taunts and jeers, even if it meant
arousing the man to a pitch of murderous madness,
Joe might make good his escape.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You wouldn’t have the nerve to shoot,” he
shouted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal brandished the shotgun and
glared at Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wouldn’t have the nerve, hey? You think
I haven’t?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe was moving back, step by step, toward
the opening.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No, you wouldn’t shoot me,” scoffed Frank.
“I don’t believe your old gun is loaded
anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal had forgotten all about Joe
by now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not loaded?” he screeched. “It’s loaded
to the muzzle, I tell you. It’s always loaded.
You’ll find out if it’s loaded or not.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was preparing to spring to his feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Listen, Captain Royal,” he said placatingly.
“Let me go this time and I promise I
won’t bother you again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the captain shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re a spy!” he screeched. “You’re a
spy! You were sent here to look through all
my papers. I’m an old sailor, I am, and in the
navy we have only one cure for spies.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And what’s that?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We shoot ’em.” Captain Royal brandished
the shotgun viciously. “We shoot ’em when
we can’t make ’em walk the plank.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You haven’t the nerve to shoot me. You
wouldn’t dare. You know you’d be hanged.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank glanced toward the mouth of the cave.
Joe was almost safe by now.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not afraid!” bragged Captain Royal.
“They’d never catch me to hang me. Death
for the spies. I’ll shoot both of you—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Only then did he become aware that Joe had
disappeared. With a growl of alarm, he swung
about, just in time to see Joe vanishing beyond
the cave mouth.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s gone!” roared the captain. “Come
back here, you young scoundrel! Come back!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He ran across the cave. Frank seized the
opportunity to leap to his feet again. Captain
Royal heard him and turned, raising the shotgun
to his shoulder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You won’t escape me!” he yelled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The shotgun was leveled directly at the boy.
Frank thought that the next moment would be
his last. He could see Captain Royal’s finger
tightening about the trigger.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But there came an interruption from the
mouth of the cave. Joe had heard the uproar
and had realized his brother’s danger. He had
not fled. He had returned to the entrance, and
there he gave vent to a shrill, blood-curdling
shriek.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal gave a shout of surprise.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s that?” he exclaimed.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He whirled hastily about, but Joe had disappeared.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Who’s there?” he roared.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe, hidden beyond the rocks, shrieked again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just wait!” yelled the captain. “I’ll come
out there and fix you. I’ll fix you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank, in the meantime, had been circling
about the side of the cave, trying to gain the
entrance unobserved. His heart sank as Captain
Royal turned around just when he was
about to make a dash for liberty.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“So!” yelled Captain Royal. “You thought
you could get away from me, eh?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The shotgun was aimed directly at Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal fired. There was a loud explosion.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch21'>CHAPTER XXI<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Over the Cliff</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>To Frank Hardy’s</span> unbounded astonishment,
the explosion was followed by a white cloud
that rose from the barrel of the shotgun. It
was not smoke, and although Captain Royal
had aimed the gun directly at him, he found
that he was uninjured.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The white cloud was flour!</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A hit!” roared Captain Royal. “A hit!
I’ve wounded him!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank wasted no further time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He raced toward the mouth of the cave and
scrambled out onto the beach. Behind him he
could hear Captain Royal screeching wildly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank almost collided with Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>His brother’s face was white. He had heard
the shot and was sure Frank had been a victim
of the maniac’s wrath.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Are you all right, Frank?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Sure. Come on—let’s beat it out of here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They stumbled across the rocks toward a
great heap of boulders that offered shelter.
Frank glanced back in time to see Captain
Royal emerge from the cave, still carrying the
shotgun.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did he miss you?” panted Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank chuckled.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If that gun had been loaded, my goose
would have been cooked by now.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But I heard the shot.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was loaded to the muzzle with flour.
That’s all. Just plain, ordinary flour.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They dropped down behind the boulders.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When they peeped out again they could see
Captain Royal at the mouth of the cave, dancing
with rage. Evidently he saw them, for he
yelled:</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You can’t hide from me. I can see you.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He raised the shotgun to his shoulder again
and pressed the trigger. Once more there was
a shower of flour distributed in every direction.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Whether he’s Todham Todd or Captain
Royal, he’s a lunatic,” declared Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s no question of that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys crouched behind the boulder and
watched the antics of the captain. He was yelling
and shrieking like a wild Indian, waving
the shotgun on high. Both barrels had been
discharged.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My ammunition is gone!” he roared. “My
ammunition is gone!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He hurled the gun away from him. It fell
with a clatter among the rocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Hatless and coatless, he was a weird figure
in the fog. He made no move toward the
Hardy boys, however, but contented himself
with dancing about at the mouth of the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The battle is lost!” shrieked Captain
Royal finally. “On to the execution!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What on earth does he mean?” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh, he’s crazy, that’s all. He doesn’t mean
anything.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All is lost! My enemies are upon me! On
to the execution! On to the execution!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal whirled about and ran down
the beach through the lowering mist.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is he going?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Let’s wait and watch him,” advised Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They saw the queer old man running and
stumbling among the rocks along the shore.
Then he turned to his right and began to
clamber up among the boulders until he came
to a scarcely visible path that led up toward the
top of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>From the boulders among which the Hardy
boys were standing they could scarcely see the
man now, so they emerged and went down
toward the cave. Captain Royal, yelling at the
top of his lungs, was climbing on up the path.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s his idea, anyway?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s certainly running amuck! I hope he
doesn’t fall and hurt himself.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The path the captain had taken wound about
in precarious fashion and at one point crossed
a ledge of rock that overhung the beach, immediately
over the rocks that sloped down into
the deep water.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal stumbled and fell, but he got
to his feet again and went on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If he ever slips when he comes to that
ledge, he’ll go over the cliff!” Joe declared.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wonder if we should follow him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>At that moment, the Hardy boys saw two
figures come into view from beyond the rocks.
At that distance and through the mist it was
impossible to distinguish their features, but as
they drew closer the Hardy boys saw that they
were none other than Chet and Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s going on here?” shouted Chet, as
they hastened up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Lots of excitement,” Frank replied. “Captain
Royal has just had a brainstorm.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What happened?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>When their chums came near, the Hardy
boys told them of their adventures of the morning,
how they had captured Carl Schaum, and
how Captain Royal had come upon them while
they were in the cave.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And he shot at you?” cried Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“With his gun loaded with flour.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Flour?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He must be crazy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Absolutely.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is he going now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe pointed to the captain, scrambling on
up the path toward the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There he is. And if he doesn’t watch out
he’s going to tumble off into the sea.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll say he is,” declared Chet. “We ought
to go after him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the distance, they could hear the wild
shrieks of Captain Royal as he went stumbling
among the rocks. He was drawing nearer to
the ledge, and as the path at this point was extremely
narrow, the boys could see that he was
indeed in danger.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Stop!” shouted Joe. “Stop, Captain!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Captain Royal, if he heard at all, paid no
attention to the warning. He continued his ascent
of the rocky path.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’d better follow him up,” said Frank.
“He can’t hurt us—we know that—and he’s
sure to hurt himself if we don’t get him down
off those rocks.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>With one accord, the boys hurried across
the beach until they came to the trail leading up
the steep incline toward the top of the cliff.
Then, with Frank Hardy in the lead, they began
the climb.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal turned and saw them. He
stopped and shook his fist at them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Go back!” he shouted wildly. “Go back, I
tell you!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Come down!” called Frank. “Come down,
Captain Royal, or you’ll be killed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The battle is lost!” howled the madman.
“My enemies are upon me! But they’ll never
capture me alive!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He bent down and lifted a heavy stone, which
he hurled down the path. It came rolling and
bouncing down the slope, gathering momentum
every second. It was headed directly for the
Hardy boys and their chums.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Scatter!” shouted Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys had little protection. The path was
so narrow that they could go neither to right
nor left for more than a few inches.</p>

<p class='pindent'>On came the heavy stone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys crouched, listening to the crash and
clatter of the great missile as it bounded toward
them. There was no use attempting to escape.
If they ran back down the path they could
never hope to reach the shore in time. The
rock was plunging down the path at terrific
speed. It seemed that the deadly object would
crash among them in another moment.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank closed his eyes. Just then the rock
bounded high in the air, shot forward in a wide
arc, lit in the path just a few yards above the
boys, and struck a projecting stone. It flew off
at a tangent, the impact diverting it from its
course so that it plunged wide of the boys who
were crouched in the path. A moment later
there was a tremendous crash as the heavy rock
struck the beach.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal, on the cliff above, was yelling
with glee.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You won’t chase me now!” he shrieked.
“That will teach you a lesson! That will teach
you something!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank scrambled to his feet. He was white
with anger. The maniac’s action had endangered
their lives.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll teach <span class='it'>you</span>!” he shouted. “Don’t do
a trick like that again. Come down off those
rocks before you fall and break your neck.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I won’t come down.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal shook his fist at them again,
wheeled about and then continued his perilous
climb. The boys hastened in pursuit. They
knew that the old man might turn and cast another
rock down the path, but they were determined
to save him from the consequences of
his own folly if they could.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fog had left the rocks and the path slippery
and treacherous. At almost every step
the boys stumbled. It was almost impossible to
maintain one’s footing as the path grew
steeper. As for Captain Royal, he was no
better off, and more than once he went sprawling
on all fours, only to pick himself up again
and resume his hazardous progress.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At last he reached the top of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys were still many yards from the
summit. Captain Royal made no attempt at
caution as he ran along the narrow path. The
rocks were slippery under foot.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’ll go over, as sure as fate!” exclaimed
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Scarcely were the words out of his mouth
when the boys saw Captain Royal stumble. He
lurched sideways, his arms thrashed the air as
he vainly grabbed for support, he gave a desperate
yell. The boys gave a simultaneous cry
of terror as they saw the man plunge through
the air, over the side of the cliff, down toward
the water far below!</p>

<div><h1 id='ch22'>CHAPTER XXII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>In Swirling Waters</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>The</span> boys looked at one another in awe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Their ears still rang with Captain Royal’s
last dreadful cry as he went hurtling over the
cliff toward the watery depths.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s gone!” gasped Chet. “I knew something
like that would happen. He slipped on
the rocks.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank, however, was already slipping and
stumbling back down the path toward the
beach.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There’s still a chance,” he shouted to the
others. “He may be alive yet. If we hurry we
may be able to get him out of the water before
he drowns. The tide’s coming in, so he may be
washed ashore.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was a slim chance, he knew. Captain
Royal had fallen from a great height and perhaps
the impact of his collision with the water
had rendered him unconscious. From the path,
the boys could not see where the old man had
struck the water, so they could not know if he
had come to the surface as yet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys scrambled down the path, almost
risking their necks in the pellmell descent.
Rocks and pebbles went skittering before them
as they plunged toward the beach.</p>

<p class='pindent'>All their resentment against Captain Royal
because he had hurled the rock at them and because
he had threatened them, had vanished in
their concern for his safety. They realized that
he was not responsible for his actions and that
his eccentricities were the fruits of a disordered
mind. They had done their best to save him
from going over the cliff. This was some consolation.
But the very thought of such a horrible
death made them shudder.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’ll be battered to pieces on the rocks!”
panted Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If we get there in time we may be able to
save him,” returned Frank. “Of course, it’s
ten chances to one that he was killed by the
fall.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They reached the rocks of the shore at last,
Frank and Joe in front, Chet and Biff stumbling
breathlessly along behind. The boys
raced down the beach toward the base of the
cliff from which Captain Royal had fallen. It
was invisible to them from where they were, but
as they skirted a ledge of rock they saw the
steep wall of the precipice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It descended to a raging foam of angry
waters, where the surf beat among the black
pinnacles of rock projecting from the sea at the
base of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He hasn’t a chance in the world,” declared
Chet, when he viewed the gloomy scene.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fog hung over the shore, and through it
loomed the black cliff and the cruel rocks.
They could see no sign of Captain Royal in the
waves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>However, the boys hastened on toward the
base of the cliff, approaching as near as they
dared. Frank scanned the water in vain for a
glimpse of a bobbing figure being cast in toward
the shore.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He wouldn’t live ten seconds in that sea!”
declared Biff, with conviction.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid you’re right, Biff,” replied
Frank sadly. “I guess we’ll never see the poor
old chap again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Pretty tough,” said Chet. “After all, he
didn’t know what he was doing. He was just
crazy. He should have been somewhere in a
place where his friends could look after him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And now,” put in Joe, “we’ll probably
never know if he was Todham Todd or not.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet looked up, interested.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“What’s that?” he asked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But before Joe could explain further, Frank
gave a shout of excitement.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I see him! Look!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>He pointed toward the black rocks at the base
of the cliff. There, in the midst of the tossing
waves, they had a momentary glimpse of a limp
figure, an upturned face among the dark waters.
There was no doubt that this was Captain
Royal, but whether he was alive or dead they
could not tell.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A gigantic wave picked up the body and
hurled it toward the dark rocks again. Somehow,
the limp form was thrown clear, otherwise
it would have been battered to pieces, and it
tumbled into a quiet pool beyond the jagged
pinnacles. There the body lay, face upward,
arms flung helplessly out.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ve got to get him out of that,” declared
Frank, taking off his coat.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How can we?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’ll be smashed to pieces against the
rocks!” exclaimed Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m going to risk it anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’d better wait for low tide.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Too late then.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Frank, don’t be foolish!” cried Joe, in
alarm. “You’ll never be able to make it.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Frank was obdurate.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can reach him if I’m careful,” he said.
“Perhaps he isn’t dead. He may be only stunned
and unconscious. If we leave him there he
will be killed.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But if he’s dead already there’s no sense in
your risking your life.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“But he may not be dead. I’m going to try
it, anyway.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Without another word, Frank handed his coat
to Chet and then made his way along the rocks
at the base of the cliff. For a few yards his
progress was uneventful, but as he reached the
deep water and the great waves pounded
against him he was obliged to exert all his
strength to breast the angry surf.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Once he was knocked off his feet and the
watchers had a glimpse of his head and outflung
arms in a smother of foam, then he disappeared
from sight. A moment later, however, they saw
him emerge, dripping, beside a rock that jutted
out of the water and pull himself up to
safety.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He still had a perilous journey before he
could reach the limp form at the base of the
rocky wall. He rested for a moment, with
waves breaking over him as he clung to the
rock. Then the watching boys saw him slip
down into the water again and flounder on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’ll be battered to pieces!” exclaimed
Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wouldn’t give a nickel for his chances,
myself,” said Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Joe shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He may get there all right, but if he tries
to bring Captain Royal’s body back with him,
he hasn’t a Chinaman’s chance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was now but a few yards away from
the shallow pool where the old man lay. He
vanished for a moment, emerged from the
waves, staggered a few paces, then a huge roller
swept over him and sent him against the side
of the cliff. But he was evidently unhurt, for
the others saw him wave toward them. Then
he plunged along the base of the wall, flattened
himself against the cliff as another wave rolled
down upon him, and then splashed into the little
pool.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He made it!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. But can he get back?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was bending over the body of Captain
Royal. The other boys saw him straighten up
suddenly and wave to them. He shouted something
but the roar of the waves drowned his
voice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he’s trying to tell us the captain
is alive,” suggested Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They saw Frank tugging at the limp form,
trying to get a convenient grip on Captain
Royal’s body.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s too heavy for Frank. It’s hard
enough for one person to get back through those
waves alone, without dragging some one else
along.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But evidently Frank was going to try it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Going to the pool, his danger had been that
a wave would pick him up and dash him to
pieces against the rocks. Returning, his
danger was that he would be unable to pit his
strength against the force of the waves at all,
that he would become exhausted before he
reached the open shore again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had hoisted Captain Royal’s body up until
the old man’s arms were over his shoulders,
and he gripped the wrists over his chest. The
body was thus across his back.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Head down, Frank plunged forward out of
the sheltered pool, directly into the waves.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The first breaker smashed against him with
terrific force. He lost his balance, staggered
and fell. The watchers groaned. They saw the
two figures in the foam, saw that Frank had
lost his grip on Captain Royal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Frank managed to get to his feet. Then
he reached out and seized the captain by the
back of the shirt. He was not beaten yet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He dragged the unconscious form into the
very heart of the raging waves, where they
surged against the sharp rocks. Each time a
mighty roller came toward them, its crest
tipped with foam, he lowered his head and set
himself for the shock. So, inch by inch, he
forged his way forward until he was among the
rocks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Here his danger was at its worst.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The water was not deep but a misstep would
have grave consequences for if he once fell the
waves would batter him against the rocks and
his chances of regaining a foothold would be
slim.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He rested a while in the shelter of the largest
rock, waited until a huge wave went by with a
crashing roar, then, as the water receded,
plunged on again. Once he seemed to stagger,
but he kept his balance, somehow, and clung to
another rock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Another wave came rolling in. Frank lowered
his head and waited for it.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Crash!</p>

<p class='pindent'>It broke over him in a cloud of flying spray.
He was completely hidden for a moment, and
the watchers on the beach were breathless with
suspense.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then, through the mist, they saw that he was
still clinging to the rock.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank was almost exhausted now. His burden,
a dead weight, was very heavy. The beach
seemed very far away. There were more rocks
to pass. He rested for a short while, then
plunged on.</p>

<p class='pindent'>By a miracle, he kept his footing among the
treacherous rocks, and by good judgment he
managed to get set in time to resist the shock
of the breaking waves. At last he felt the sand
beneath his feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He had only a short distance to go now, but
his knees gave way beneath him. He stumbled
and fell. He lost his grip on the body of Captain
Royal. A great wave broke over them.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Joe and Chet and Biff were already wading
toward them. In a moment, Frank felt
strong hands seizing him. Half-conscious, he
was dragged out of the water onto the sands.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Captain Royal!” he stammered. “Get him!
He’s all right!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Chet is bringing him in,” said Joe reassuringly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s unconscious,” gasped Frank, “but
he’s alive.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then he collapsed, gasping and exhausted, on
the sand. Chet came up, carrying the limp
body of Captain Royal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s breathing!” declared Chet excitedly.
“Frank saved him.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch23'>CHAPTER XXIII<br/> <span class='sub-head'>Back To Bayport</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Captain Royal</span> was unconscious, but he was
still breathing. There was a bad cut on his
head and it had bled profusely.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’d better get him to a doctor right
away!” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t think he’s been badly hurt.” Chet
began feeling the unconscious man’s ribs.
“There are no bones broken, at any rate. He
hit his head against a rock, I guess.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The blow on the head knocked him cold,”
Biff remarked.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Perhaps he’s got concussion of the brain.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“In that case, he needs a doctor,” Joe said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“How about Frank?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Frank was already sitting up.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m all right,” he told them. “I’m just
about all in, but I’ll be as right as rain in a few
minutes. Whew, those waves sure battered me
about, I’ll tell the world!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We never expected to see you come back
alive,” Chet told him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It was pretty bad coming back,” Frank admitted.
“The captain is heavier than he
looks!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He’s still alive, at any rate.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t he conscious yet?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Not a bit of it. He’s breathing, but he’s
still dead to the world, and there’s no sign that
he’s coming to.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, we’ve got to get him to a doctor,
that’s all,” declared Frank decisively.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He got to his feet, exhausted though he was.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you mean that we’ll carry him back to
the road?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll take him right back to Bayport.
That’s where the nearest hospital is that we
know anything about.” Frank looked down
at the unconscious man. “He’s in bad shape.
If he were just stunned, he’d be awake by now.
Chances are, his skull is fractured. That’s a
bad cut.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys looked down at the unconscious
Captain Royal, sprawled limply on the sand.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s a long haul,” demurred Biff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We can’t leave him here. We can’t do anything
for him ourselves, you know that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re right.” Biff bent over and grasped
the unconscious man’s feet. “Give me a hand
with him, some one.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Chet and Joe helped him. They raised Captain
Royal from the ground and began carrying
him up the beach. Frank went on ahead, still
weak from the effects of his grueling ordeal in
rescuing the eccentric old man from the sea.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Captain Royal showed no signs of returning
consciousness. He was a dead weight as the
boys carried him on past his own cave, past the
place where Carl Schaum had been hiding, past
the boys’ cave. There the lads rested, before
undertaking the hard climb up the path to the
top of the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They tried all the first aid measures they had
ever heard of, but Captain Royal still remained
unconscious. The cut on his head was not
bleeding any more; his breathing was heavy,
and the lads saw that it was no ordinary case
of being rendered senseless by a blow on the
head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A doctor is the only thing,” declared
Frank. “His lungs are clear of water, so he’s
all right in that respect. He must have struck
his head when he was washed in among those
rocks.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, let’s get busy then,” said Biff, who
was no laggard. “We had better get him to the
hospital as quickly as we can.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They took turns carrying Captain Royal up
the path that led to the top of the cliff. It was
an arduous climb, and it was late in the afternoon
before they finally reached the rocks
above. Then they rested once more before
starting the journey to the fisherman’s cottage.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Thank goodness, he has a car,” said Joe.
“He’ll help us take him in to the city. We
would never be able to carry him on the motorcycles.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“A queer end to our exploration trip,”
grunted Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Puffing and panting, they carried the unconscious
man on over the rocks until they came to
the path leading down to the fisherman’s cottage.
There they rested again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Finally, after a halting descent, they came
to the cottage. Their friend, the fisherman,
was fortunately at home. Accompanied by his
wife, he came running out when the boys appeared
in sight with their burden.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“First it’s a prisoner and now it’s a sick
man!” he exclaimed, as he drew near. “I
declare, you chaps seem to scare up more excitement
than anybody that ever came to
Honeycomb Caves.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“This is an old man who was living in one of
the caves,” explained Frank. “He fell off a
cliff and hurt himself. Do you think you could
help us get him to a doctor?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fisherman glanced inquiringly at his
wife.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Go ahead, John,” she said. “You wouldn’t
let the poor man die, would you?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I wondered if you’d mind bein’ left alone.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Go on. I’m not a baby. Drive the poor fellow
out to a doctor. It’s easy to be seen he
needs attention.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The fisherman quickly brought out his car and
they carefully put Captain Royal in the back
seat. The boys brought out their motorcycles
and, with Biff riding in company of the fisherman,
the little party set out for the main road.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I don’t know whether we can find a doctor
at the village or not,” said the fisherman. “If
we can’t, there’s nothing for it but to drive on
into Bayport.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll fix the expenses,” Frank assured him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s all right. I don’t want any money
for my trouble. The poor old chap seems to
have got a terrible wallop on the head. How
did it happen?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He fell off a cliff.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Did it have anything to do with the fellow
you brought out this morning?” asked the fisherman
shrewdly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. Nothing to do with him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They reached the main road and drove on
toward the village. There they found that the
one and only doctor had been called out on a
case and would not be back until the following
morning.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Bayport it is, then,” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>It was plain that the fisherman did not relish
the idea of the long trip to Bayport. It was
equally plain that he felt it his duty to bring
the unconscious man to a doctor. On the other
hand, the chums did not like the idea of using
his battered car, not only because of the trouble
it would give the fisherman but because the car
would not go more than thirty or thirty-five
miles an hour. The motorcycles were invariably
far ahead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The difficulty was soon solved, however. A
heavy touring car pulled up in front of the village
general store and when the driver stepped
out the Hardy boys gave a cry of delight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. Jacobson!” exclaimed Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Why, hello there, Frank Hardy!” said the
man. “What brings you away out here?
Hello, Joe. And who have you with you?
Chet and Biff, or I’m a Dutchman. What’s
up now?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The man was a Bayport merchant, a close
friend of Fenton Hardy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Swiftly, the boys explained the situation to
him. Jacobson soon realized the importance of
the matter, and readily consented to take Captain
Royal to Bayport with him.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Absolutely!” he said. “It’s no trouble to
me. I was going to Bayport, anyway, and it
won’t hurt if I put on a little extra speed. How
about you chaps?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Joe and Chet and I have our motorcycles,”
said Frank. “Biff will go with you, and look
after the captain.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Righto! We’ll make it in good time, I
fancy.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys and their chums thereupon
thanked the fisherman for his trouble. He
seemed relieved that he was not called on to
make the long journey into Bayport.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Write and let me know how the old gentleman
gets along,” he requested before he left
the boys. “I hope he recovers all right.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys promised that they would do so.
Then the Hardy boys and Chet mounted their
motorcycles, Biff got into the automobile with
Mr. Jacobson to look after Captain Royal in
the back seat, and they started off.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Frank and Joe often talked of that wild ride
back to the city. Jacobson’s car was big and
powerful and he wasted no time on the road.
They realized that the matter was urgent and
that it was necessary for Captain Royal to receive
medical attention as soon as possible, so
they paid little attention to the speed laws. The
big car roared along the Shore Road, and the
motorcycles clattered on behind.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We should be there by midnight, at this
rate,” grunted Joe, as they sped around a
curve.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re going back a lot quicker than we
left,” replied his brother.</p>

<p class='pindent'>At length they came within sight of the
twinkling lights of Bayport. The roar of the
big automobile did not diminish. At breakneck
speed they clattered into the city limits.</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the back seat of the car, Biff turned frequently
to look at the unconscious form beside
him. To his relief, Captain Royal was still
breathing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think the old chap will pull through all
right,” he said to himself.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Up a dark, quiet street sped the car, then
came to a stop before a massive stone house
with a neat gilt plate beside the door. The motorcycles
roared up and the boys dismounted.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’ll take him in and let the doctor have a
look at him,” said Mr. Jacobson. “If he is in
bad shape, the doc will put him in his own private
hospital. He’ll get the best of care here.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Carefully, they carried Captain Royal up the
steps. Their ring was answered by a servant,
and they took the old man into a waiting
room. The doctor, who had been in bed, soon
came downstairs in pyjamas and dressing gown.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“An accident case, Doctor,” explained
Frank. “This old man fell off a cliff into the
sea and he’s been unconscious for eight or nine
hours.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The doctor made a swift examination. His
frown deepened as he inspected the cut on Captain
Royal’s temple.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Queer!” he said. “It isn’t a very bad cut,
and there seems to be no sign of a fracture. It
looks like concussion of the brain, to me, but he
doesn’t appear to have had a very hard blow.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The waves washed him up against the
rocks,” said Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The doctor shook his head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He seems in a bad way. Eight hours, you
said?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll have to give him a more detailed examination.
I’ll admit him as a patient to my own
hospital if you people will be responsible for
him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That’s all right, Doctor. Do what you can
for him and send the bill to us,” said Frank
promptly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The doctor rang a bell. An attendant appeared,
wheeling a long, white table. Captain
Royal was placed upon it and wheeled away.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll let you know in the morning,” promised
the doctor. “Frankly, I don’t mind telling you
he’s in bad shape. He may never regain consciousness
again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys were sobered by the thought that
Captain Royal, for all his eccentricities, might
be dying as a result of his wild dash over the
rocks. Slowly they filed out into the street,
bade good-bye to Mr. Jacobson and thanked
him for his assistance, then went home. As
Chet Morton lived out in the country, the Hardy
boys invited him to spend the rest of the night
with them. He accepted the invitation gladly,
for the prospect of a long trip out of the city
had not appealed to him. Biff Hooper, who
lived near by, went to his own home.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The house was in darkness when they arrived,
so the Hardy boys and Chet quietly
parked their motorcycles, slipped up the back
stairs and were soon in bed. They were so
tired after their adventures of the day that in
spite of the temptation to discuss matters,
sleep soon overcame them.</p>

<div><h1 id='ch24'>CHAPTER XXIV<br/> <span class='sub-head'>At the Hospital</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Next</span> morning, refreshed by their sleep,
Frank, Joe and Chet were downstairs early,
but not earlier than Fenton Hardy, who was already
busy in his office clearing up some work
before breakfast. He welcomed them cheerily.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Back so soon!” he exclaimed. “I thought
this trip would keep you away at least a week.
What’s the matter? Did you get frightened by
the sea serpent?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We didn’t get frightened, Dad. We had to
come back with a man who got hurt.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Oh.” Fenton Hardy’s expression changed
to one of concern. “Who is he?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We think he’s Todham Todd.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Todham Todd!” exclaimed the detective.
“Are you sure?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We are not sure. But we have an idea that’s
who he is. And he may be a murderer too.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Hardy motioned the three boys to chairs.
“Sit down and tell me all about it. A murderer!
That sounds bad.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>With Frank as spokesman, and Chet and Joe
prompting him once in a while, they told Mr.
Hardy about their meeting with Captain Royal,
about the eccentric behavior of the old man
and of his actions on finding the brothers looking
over the clippings in the cave, culminating
in his fall from the cliff.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And he’s at the private hospital now,” concluded
Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well,” said Mr. Hardy, “we’ll have breakfast
now and then we can soon settle the matter
once and for all. Evangeline Todd is staying at
the summer hotel and we can ask her to come
over to the hospital and have a look at this Captain
Royal.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Do you think he can be this Lieutenant Patwick,
Dad?” asked Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Possibly. If so, the crime may have turned
his mind. Such things have happened.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Well, if he’s Patwick then we’ll have cleared
up something anyway,” remarked Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Breakfast was announced a few minutes
later, and after the Hardy boys had been
warmly greeted by their mother they sat down
to fruit, bacon and eggs, toast and coffee and
jam, to which they did full justice. They were
anxious, however, to call on Miss Todd.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Hardy called up the private hospital and
inquired about Captain Royal. He came back,
his face serious.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The old chap is still unconscious. The doctor
seems to think he has only a slim chance.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It will be tough if he turns out to be Todham
Todd after all,” said Joe. “Too bad if
we’ve found him, only to have him die.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Everything may turn out all right,” said
Mr. Hardy. “Of course he may not be Todham
Todd. You have only your suspicions to
go on, although I must say it’s very strange
that the old man should have had all those lecture
clippings in the cave. I’ve been thinking
that Todham Todd may have lost his memory
and forgotten his identity. He may have had
a dim recollection of once having been a lecturer
of some kind so he took to collecting all
the newspaper stories he could, in an effort to
awaken his memory again.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’ll bet you’re right!” exclaimed Chet.
“That sounds mighty reasonable to me.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s just a theory. Still, it may be true.
We’ll call on Miss Todd.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They left the house and went on down to the
hotel at which Miss Evangeline Todd was staying.
She had just concluded her breakfast when
they arrived.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Have you any news?” she asked quickly,
when she recognized her visitors.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We have news, of a sort,” admitted Fenton
Hardy.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Tell me. What is it? Has Todham been
found? Is he well?” Miss Todd sank back in
a chair and fanned herself with a magazine.
“Don’t keep me in suspense.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We have found a man who may or may not
be your brother.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where is he?” demanded Miss Todd, getting
up quickly. “Take me to him at once?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Hardy laid a restraining hand upon
her arm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Don’t count on this too much, Miss Todd,”
he advised. “This man may not be your
brother at all. As a matter of fact, we have
nothing definite to go on, but we’d like to have
you come with us and identify him if you can.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Identify him? Is he dead?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“No. But he’s in a local hospital.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Todham in a hospital? Where? I must go
to him at once.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now, as I’ve already said, we’re not at all
certain that this man is your brother. If you
will come with us we will show you this man
and you will be able to see for yourself if he is
your brother or not.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Just a minute, until I put on my hat. I’ll
go with you right away. My goodness, if it’s
really Todham—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Talking to herself in her excitement, Miss
Todd bustled away upstairs and returned in a
few minutes, her hat awry.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Hurry!” she said. “Where is the hospital?
We’ll take a taxi and get there more quickly.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fenton Hardy smiled sympathetically. Miss
Todd was tremendously agitated at the prospect
of again seeing her long-lost brother. The
hospital was less than three blocks away, so
they did not hail a taxi after all, but walked the
short distance, and in a little while they found
themselves in the doctor’s waiting room.</p>

<p class='pindent'>A uniformed nurse entered.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You want to see the patient called Captain
Royal?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If you please.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“The doctor is with him now, but he says you
may go up. I will show you to his room.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Captain Royal!” exclaimed Evangeline
Todd. “That isn’t his name! I thought you
said he might be my brother.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That is the name he has been using,” explained
Frank. “How is he this morning,
nurse?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“There isn’t much change in his condition.
The doctor says it is a strange case. But, I’m
afraid—”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Isn’t he going to live?” asked Miss Todd
sharply.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Fenton Hardy soothed her anxiety.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Now, Miss Todd, try to calm yourself. We
must be very quiet, you know. This man is
very, very sick.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The lady heeded his advice. During the rest
of their journey down the long corridor she
talked only in whispers. At length they
reached the door of a private room. The nurse
knocked. The boys heard the doctor’s voice,
saying, “Come!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The nurse held open the door and they entered
a spacious private room, spotlessly clean
and well-lighted. Lying on the bed was Captain
Royal, with a white bandage around his
head.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Evangeline Todd looked at the man wildly,
then rushed to the bedside.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“My brother!” she cried. “It’s my brother,
Todham!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>She leaned over the unconscious figure.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Speak to me, Todham! Speak to me! Don’t
you recognize me? It’s you’re sister. I’ve
hunted everywhere for you, and now I’ve found
you at last.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then, overcome with emotion, she sank beside
the bed and burst into tears.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s the missing professor, after all!” exclaimed
Chet, in awe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The Hardy boys, while they had expected
that Evangeline Todd would identify Captain
Royal as her brother, were electrified with delight.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We were right!” said Frank. “He was
Todham Todd all along.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Mr. Hardy and the doctor tried to calm the
weeping woman, who was almost hysterical
with relief, now that her long search was
ended.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s Todham!” she said, over and over
again. “It’s my brother. I would know him
anywhere.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the man in the bed knew nothing of what
was going on. His eyes were closed. His
face was white and calm. Had it not been for
an occasional slight twitching of the nostrils
one might have thought that he was dead.</p>

<p class='pindent'>The doctor, who knew nothing of the reason
for Miss Todd’s outburst, was astonished, but
in a few words Fenton Hardy explained the
situation to him. He shook his head sadly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“And this is where she has found her
brother, at last?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Yes. He has been missing for months.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m afraid,” said the doctor, “that she has
found him only to lose him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Is it that serious?”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“It’s concussion of the brain, and there seem
to have been complications. He has only a slim
chance to live.”</p>

<div><h1 id='ch25'>CHAPTER XXV<br/> <span class='sub-head'>The Last of Captain Royal</span></h1></div>

<p class='pindent'><span class='lead-in'>Todham Todd</span> hovered between life and death
for almost two weeks. For days he lay unconscious,
knowing nothing of the efforts that were
being made to save him. He had the best of
care, and the doctor gave him every attention,
but admitted that the case was one in which
he could do little.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We simply have to wait,” he told the Hardy
boys and Miss Todd. “He may be restored to
consciousness at any moment. On the other
hand, he may die just as quickly. He has a good
constitution, so we may at least hope for the
best.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were anxious days. Every morning,
the Hardy boys called at the hospital to inquire
about the strange patient, and every morning
the answer was the same.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Mr. Todd’s condition is unchanged.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>One morning Fenton Hardy came to his sons
with a newspaper in his hand. He was smiling
broadly.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I think the mystery is explained,” he said.
“Read this.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>In the newspaper was an account of the capture
of Lieutenant Patwick. The man had been
shot down on the seacoast by detectives.
Thinking he was going to die, he had admitted
the murder of Barton Bixby. He also spoke of
hiding in a cave with a strange old man, a
lunatic.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Todham Todd,” murmured Frank.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That makes everything as clear as day,”
added Joe.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He must have left his clippings with Captain
Royal,” said Mr. Hardy. “Murderers
usually like to read all that is printed about
their crimes.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The boys told Evangeline Todd the entire
story of their meeting with Captain Royal, although
in deference to the good lady’s feelings
they refrained from mentioning the fight in the
cave or the incident of the shotgun. How
Todham Todd had found his way down to the
coast and what had prompted him to call himself
Captain Royal and take up his hermit
existence in the cave, were mysteries.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“If he recovers, he may remember nothing
about that phase,” the doctor had said. “You
may use your own judgment whether to tell him
of it or not.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We shan’t tell him,” declared Evangeline
Todd decisively. “Let him take up the threads
of his old life anew.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Then her face clouded.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“That is—if he recovers,” she added, with
a catch in her voice.</p>

<p class='pindent'>There came a morning when the nurse in
charge saw the eyelids of the sick man flutter,
and then he spoke.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Where am I?” he asked, in a puzzled tone.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You are quite safe,” the nurse told him.
“You have met with an accident. You are in
the hospital.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Ah, yes,” he said. “I remember now.
There was a railroad accident. Something
must have struck me on the head. I can remember
a sudden blow, and that is all.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You have been unconscious for a long time,
Captain. You must be quiet.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Captain?” he said. “I’m not a captain.
My name is Todd. My name is Todham Todd.
I’m a professor at the university.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The doctor was called. He questioned the
patient carefully and it was soon evident that
Todham Todd had recovered his memory with
the exception of the time following the first accident
that had resulted in amnesia. From that
time, everything was a blank. He knew nothing
of his wanderings, knew nothing of what
had happened in the caves, knew nothing of the
accident that had restored his memory again.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“He will live,” the doctor told Evangeline
Todd a short time later. “His memory is completely
restored. Unless complications set in,
he should be able to leave the hospital within a
few days.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>The doctor’s prediction was correct.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Todham Todd, completely restored in memory,
was able to leave the hospital before the
week was out. The reunion between the man
and his sister was an affectionate one. The
professor had not the slightest inkling of all
the strange events that had transpired from the
time of the first accident until he woke up in
the hospital at Bayport. He was deeply puzzled
when he learned where he was, but the doctor
covered up his bewilderment by explaining
that his case had been so unusual that he had
been brought there for special treatment when
the doctors of his home city had failed to bring
him back to consciousness.</p>

<p class='pindent'>He was introduced to the Hardy boys by
Miss Todd, who was pathetically grateful to
the lads for restoring her brother to her, safe
and sound again. But there was no sign of
recognition. Seeing the boys struck no responsive
chord in Professor Todd’s memory.
He knew nothing of the days when he had
played at being Captain Royal. To all intents
and purposes, he was seeing the Hardy boys
for the first time.</p>

<p class='pindent'>They were content to let it remain at that and
were careful to say nothing that might indicate
they had known him previously. And when
Todham Todd finally left the hospital and went
to the hotel where his sister was staying, to
rest there a few days before going back home,
the Hardy boys were his firm friends.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We must never let him know,” said Evangeline
Todd to the boys that evening.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You may rely on us, Miss Todd,” they assured
her.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I can’t tell you how grateful I am,” she
said. “If you boys had not been shrewd
enough to think that Captain Royal might be
Todham Todd after all, things might not have
turned out as they have. You might not have
concerned yourselves with him any more, and
he might still be living that wretched life in the
caves. I want to reward your father and yourselves
for finding him.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Fenton Hardy had already expressed
himself on the subject of the reward.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I want nothing,” he said. “You have already
paid any expenses I incurred in trying
to trace Mr. Todd. As for finding him, the
credit belongs to the boys.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But the Hardy boys were insistent in their
refusal.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“We’re only too glad that we helped find
him,” they told Miss Todd. “We couldn’t accept
a reward for what we did. In a way, it was
chance that threw him in our path.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Although Miss Todd pleaded with them to alter
their decision, they were firm.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Our greatest reward is in seeing your
brother with you again, with his memory restored,”
declared Frank. “We want nothing
more than that.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>But Miss Todd expressed her appreciation in
tangible form before she left Bayport. She invited
the Hardy boys and some of their chums,
Chet Morton, Biff Hooper, Phil Cohen, Tony
Prito, Jack Dodd and Jerry Gilroy, to a banquet
at the hotel, and there the lads sat down
to a “spread” the like of which they had not
seen before. There was everything dear to the
heart of a boy, from fried chicken, fluffy
mashed potatoes and sweet pickles, to ice-cream
and five different kinds of pie.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Professor Todham Todd, white-haired,
kindly-faced, looking quite different from the
wild-eyed Captain Royal of Honeycomb Caves,
presided at the banquet and made a little speech
in which he thanked them all for their interest
in his welfare and their kindness to him. Although
he had no idea of the real part the
Hardy boys and their chums had played in his
recovery, he had taken a genuine liking to them
and it is probable that he enjoyed the banquet
as much as any one.</p>

<p class='pindent'>When the lads had eaten of chicken and ice-cream
until they could eat no more, Miss Todd
stood up and said she had an announcement to
make.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You all know something of the circumstances
under which we have gathered here to-night.
You all know the debt of gratitude I owe
to the Hardy boys, in particular, and to Chet
Morton and Biff Hooper. So if they will stand
up, I have something for them.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Blushing, the four lads got to their feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“All I can say,” continued Miss Todd, “is
that my brother and I thank you very, very
much.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>Todham Todd looked a bit bewildered, but he
smiled quite as though he knew what it was all
about. It was probable that the good man was
mildly puzzled until the end of his life as to the
reason for the presentations.</p>

<p class='pindent'>For Miss Todd thereupon handed Frank and
Joe an order for a handsome motion picture
camera, something they had long wished to own.
To Chet and Biff she gave each a gold watch
and chain.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Speech! Speech!” shouted the other boys,
as the recipients of the gifts stammered their
thanks.</p>

<p class='pindent'>After considerable pressure, Frank was at
last prevailed upon to say a few words.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not a very good orator,” he said.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“You’re a better detective,” shouted one of
the lads at the table.</p>

<p class='pindent'>Perhaps he was—and Joe, too. One can decide
in “The Mystery of Cabin Island.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“I’m not a very good orator,” Frank said,
“but I certainly want to thank Miss Todd very
much indeed, although we don’t deserve such a
beautiful present.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There were loud cheers for this effort, as the
boy sat down blushing.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Speech from Chet Morton!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Say, listen—” protested the bashful Chet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>But he was shoved to his feet.</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Speech! Chet Morton’s going to make a
speech!”</p>

<p class='pindent'>“Gosh, I can’t say anything except that I
thank Miss Todd very much and I’m glad Professor
Todd is well again and—and I wonder
if there’s to be a second helping of ice-cream.”</p>

<p class='pindent'>There was.</p>
