<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XIV</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-14" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">Captain Royal</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>When the three boys reached the cave where they had last seen Frank Hardy they piled the driftwood in a heap close by one of the pits in the floor.</p>
			<p>They were surprised at the number of holes and crevices they had discovered.</p>
			<p>“It’s a wonder we weren’t all killed,” said Chet. “We were all prowling around this cave without any idea of the danger.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a good place to stay out of,” Joe remarked. “But first of all we’ll try to get Frank out of it too.”</p>
			<p>He was trying to be hopeful, but it was difficult. The ominous silence since his brother’s disappearance had been none too encouraging.</p>
			<p>They lit the fire. In a short time, the flames flared high and a flickering radiance illuminated the cave, revealing the damp ceiling high above, the clammy walls in the distance, and the rough floor, seamed and pitted with cracks and holes in the rock.</p>
			<p>Methodically, they resumed their search, investigating each of these gigantic crevices. But in spite of all their shouts, in spite of the fact that they were enabled to make a more thorough search now that the cave was not as dark as it had been, in spite of the fact that Joe even descended one of the shallower pits on the chance that Frank might be lying unconscious at the bottom, their search was in vain.</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid it’s no use,” said Biff finally.</p>
			<p>“I hate to give up!” declared Joe. “And yet⁠—we’ve done all we can.”</p>
			<p>“Better have some sleep and try again to-morrow,” Chet suggested. “Frank is either unconscious or⁠—or dead. Some of these pits seem terribly deep.”</p>
			<p>Joe realized that the advice was reasonable. They were all very tired and in no condition to continue the search. As Chet said, if Frank were alive or conscious, he would have shouted to them.</p>
			<p>“All right,” agreed Joe. “We’ll go back to the other cave. But I’m afraid I’ll never be able to sleep.”</p>
			<p>“We’ll have a rest, anyway. Then we’ll come back. If we still can’t find him we’ll go back to the village and get some men to help us with ropes and big searchlights. We’ll never go back to Bayport until we find out what has happened to him.”</p>
			<p>Disconsolately, the boys turned away.</p>
			<p>They were almost at the entrance of the second cave when they heard a faint sound.</p>
			<p>Joe wheeled about.</p>
			<p>“What was that?”</p>
			<p>They listened. The sound was repeated. It was like a distant cry.</p>
			<p>“Somebody calling!” declared Biff excitedly.</p>
			<p>“It must be Frank!”</p>
			<p>The boys stood quite still and listened for a repetition of the call. It came again, muffled and far away, but unmistakably a human voice.</p>
			<p>With one accord, they turned and ran back into the cave.</p>
			<p>“It’s Frank!”</p>
			<p>They hurried across the treacherous floor in the direction of the sound. It was clearer now.</p>
			<p>“Joe! Joe!”</p>
			<p>They recognized Frank’s voice.</p>
			<p>The call came from a part of the cave that they had not searched carefully. Joe shouted back excitedly:</p>
			<p>“We hear you, Frank! Call again, so we’ll know where to find you!”</p>
			<p>Again came the faint shout. It guided them toward a pit that was almost hidden from view by a huge boulder. It was one of the few pits that they had overlooked.</p>
			<p>Evidently Frank had seen the reflection of their searchlights, for he shouted weakly:</p>
			<p>“Right over here.”</p>
			<p>At the edge of the pit, they looked down.</p>
			<p>There, just a blur in the gloom, they distinguished a figure. Frank was standing up, leaning against the side of the rocky shaft, just a few yards below.</p>
			<p>Chet had brought with him a length of stout rope and he quickly flung one end of this down into the pit.</p>
			<p>“We’ll have you out of there in no time. Boy, but it’s good to hear your voice again!” There was heartfelt relief in his tones.</p>
			<p>Frank explained that the sides of the pit were too steep to enable him to make his way to the surface without assistance. However, with the aid of the rope, and with Joe and his chums pulling lustily, he was soon hauled to the top.</p>
			<p>As he scrambled up out of the pit, the others noticed, in the glow of the fire, that he had a nasty gash across his temple.</p>
			<p>“You’re hurt!” said Joe, when the first exclamations of enthusiasm and delight had died down.</p>
			<p>“I’m all right now,” Frank assured them. “I’m a little dizzy yet, and weak, but it isn’t serious.”</p>
			<p>“What happened?”</p>
			<p>“I fell down the pit, and I struck my head against the rocks. It must have knocked me out for a few minutes but when I came to, I began to shout.”</p>
			<p>“A few minutes!” exclaimed Chet. “We’ve been hunting for you over an hour.”</p>
			<p>Frank looked incredulous.</p>
			<p>“An hour! Why, I thought I had been unconscious only a little while.”</p>
			<p>The others then told him of the search they had made and of their anxiety on his account. However, they were so relieved at seeing him safe and sound again that they soon forgot the serious side of the affair and Chet remarked that Frank had been lucky in having an hour’s sleep while the rest had been shouting their lungs out. They trooped out of the cavern back toward their own cave, and Joe told his brother about the missing supplies.</p>
			<p>“That’s queer,” said Frank. “Were they stolen while we were in the big cave?”</p>
			<p>“It looks like that.”</p>
			<p>“But the man who woke us up went into the big cave ahead of us.”</p>
			<p>“He may have hidden and we might have passed him.”</p>
			<p>“That’s possible. Perhaps it wasn’t a man at all. The thief might have been an animal.”</p>
			<p>The others had not considered this explanation.</p>
			<p>“No use crying over spilled milk now,” declared Frank. “We’d just better go back to sleep and hunt for our supplies in the morning.”</p>
			<p>When morning came, a diligent search of the cave failed to reveal any clues that would help the boys trace the thief, whether man or animal.</p>
			<p>“We’re out of luck, that’s all,” concluded Frank finally. “Our friend must have fooled us nicely. Perhaps he came into the cave to steal supplies in the first place, then slipped past us in the darkness when we went to look for him.”</p>
			<p>“And helped himself,” said Chet gloomily.</p>
			<p>“He left something, at any rate. We won’t starve to-day, and if our grub runs out we can go back to the village for more. We’ll make the best of it. Let’s start exploring the shoreline. That’s what we came for.”</p>
			<p>The matter of the stolen supplies was thus dismissed, although Chet was very gloomy for some time as he thought of the food that had been taken, notably a tin of strawberry jam, of which he was inordinately fond.</p>
			<p>The storm was over, and from the cave they could see the sun shining on the blue waters of the sea. They lost no time in eating breakfast and then hastening down to the beach. Although they were dubious as to the advisability of leaving their remaining supplies in the cave, they reasoned that as it was impossible to take the provisions everywhere with them, they would have to run the risk of further theft.</p>
			<p>Out on the beach, beneath the lowering black cliffs, they forgot the unfortunate beginning of their quest in the delight of the keen, salty air and the cool breeze from the sea. The sandy shore wound about the face of a great bluff of black rock and when the lads had skirted this precipice they were confronted by a dark opening at the base of the cliff just a few yards away.</p>
			<p>“Another cave!” exclaimed Frank.</p>
			<p>Chet gave a cheer.</p>
			<p>“Let’s investigate.”</p>
			<p>They advanced on the cave, but when they were just in front of the entrance they halted with exclamations of surprise.</p>
			<p>Tacked on a board stuck in the sand beside the cave mouth was a tattered fragment of paper. On it, in black letters scrawled with a heavy pencil, they read:</p>
			<p class="line" style="text-align:center;margin-top:1em;margin-bottom:1em;">NO TRESPASSING.</p>
			<p>The boys looked at this sign in astonishment.</p>
			<p>“By order of the chief of police,” murmured Chet, with a grin.</p>
			<p>“Looks as if somebody has been here before,” Biff observed.</p>
			<p>“Perhaps somebody just put up the sign for a joke. Let’s take a peep inside.”</p>
			<p>Frank advanced toward the cave.</p>
			<p>But at the entrance he paused. He peered into the gloomy beyond and then turned back to his companions.</p>
			<p>“The sign isn’t a joke,” he said quietly. “Somebody lives here!”</p>
			<p>“<span class="it">Lives</span> there!” ejaculated Chet incredulously.</p>
			<p>“Come and see for yourself.”</p>
			<p>Curiously, the lads crowded into the entrance of the cave. They saw at a glance that Frank was right. In the gloomy interior of the cave they could see a crude table, a mattress with blankets, and on a ledge of rock was an improvised cupboard consisting of an old soap box. That the cave had only been recently tenanted they saw by the fact that the box held some canned goods and some other provisions that had certainly not been there long.</p>
			<p>“Well, I’ll be switched!” declared Joe. “We have a neighbor.”</p>
			<p>“We certainly have. And if I’m not mistaken, here he comes now.”</p>
			<p>Frank was looking down the beach. The others turned.</p>
			<p>“What a queer duck he is!” exclaimed Biff.</p>
			<p>“I’ll say he is!” ejaculated Chet Morton. “Where do they get ’em like that?”</p>
			<p>Coming around a jutting promontory of rock was a queer old man, clad in fisherman’s garb, with a huge straw hat on his head. He had not seen them as yet. He was singing, in a high-pitched voice, and even at that distance they could make out the words:</p>
			<div class="poetry-container" style="">
				<div class="lgp">
					<!-- rend=';' -->
					<div class="stanza-outer">
						<p class="line0">“I’m Captain Royal, of the King’s Navee,</p>
						<p class="line0">And I want two lumps of sugar in my tea.”</p>
					</div>
				</div>
			</div>
			<!-- end poetry block -->
			<!-- end rend -->
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
