<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-US">
	<head>
		<title>XXIV: At the Hospital</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-24" epub:type="chapter">
			<hgroup>
				<h2 epub:type="ordinal z3998:roman">XXIV</h2>
				<p epub:type="title">At the Hospital</p>
			</hgroup>
			<p>Next morning, refreshed by their sleep, Frank, Joe and Chet were downstairs early, but not earlier than Fenton Hardy, who was already busy in his office clearing up some work before breakfast. He welcomed them cheerily.</p>
			<p>“Back so soon!” he exclaimed. “I thought this trip would keep you away at least a week. What’s the matter? Did you get frightened by the sea serpent?”</p>
			<p>“We didn’t get frightened, Dad. We had to come back with a man who got hurt.”</p>
			<p>“Oh.” Fenton Hardy’s expression changed to one of concern. “Who is he?”</p>
			<p>“We think he’s Todham Todd.”</p>
			<p>“Todham Todd!” exclaimed the detective. “Are you sure?”</p>
			<p>“We are not sure. But we have an idea that’s who he is. And he may be a murderer too.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy motioned the three boys to chairs. “Sit down and tell me all about it. A murderer! That sounds bad.”</p>
			<p>With Frank as spokesman, and Chet and Joe prompting him once in a while, they told <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy about their meeting with Captain Royal, about the eccentric behavior of the old man and of his actions on finding the brothers looking over the clippings in the cave, culminating in his fall from the cliff.</p>
			<p>“And he’s at the private hospital now,” concluded Frank.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy, “we’ll have breakfast now and then we can soon settle the matter once and for all. Evangeline Todd is staying at the summer hotel and we can ask her to come over to the hospital and have a look at this Captain Royal.”</p>
			<p>“Do you think he can be this Lieutenant Patwick, Dad?” asked Joe.</p>
			<p>“Possibly. If so, the crime may have turned his mind. Such things have happened.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if he’s Patwick then we’ll have cleared up something anyway,” remarked Frank.</p>
			<p>Breakfast was announced a few minutes later, and after the Hardy boys had been warmly greeted by their mother they sat down to fruit, bacon and eggs, toast and coffee and jam, to which they did full justice. They were anxious, however, to call on Miss Todd.</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy called up the private hospital and inquired about Captain Royal. He came back, his face serious.</p>
			<p>“The old chap is still unconscious. The doctor seems to think he has only a slim chance.”</p>
			<p>“It will be tough if he turns out to be Todham Todd after all,” said Joe. “Too bad if we’ve found him, only to have him die.”</p>
			<p>“Everything may turn out all right,” said <abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy. “Of course he may not be Todham Todd. You have only your suspicions to go on, although I must say it’s very strange that the old man should have had all those lecture clippings in the cave. I’ve been thinking that Todham Todd may have lost his memory and forgotten his identity. He may have had a dim recollection of once having been a lecturer of some kind so he took to collecting all the newspaper stories he could, in an effort to awaken his memory again.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll bet you’re right!” exclaimed Chet. “That sounds mighty reasonable to me.”</p>
			<p>“It’s just a theory. Still, it may be true. We’ll call on Miss Todd.”</p>
			<p>They left the house and went on down to the hotel at which Miss Evangeline Todd was staying. She had just concluded her breakfast when they arrived.</p>
			<p>“Have you any news?” she asked quickly, when she recognized her visitors.</p>
			<p>“We have news, of a sort,” admitted Fenton Hardy.</p>
			<p>“Tell me. What is it? Has Todham been found? Is he well?” Miss Todd sank back in a chair and fanned herself with a magazine. “Don’t keep me in suspense.”</p>
			<p>“We have found a man who may or may not be your brother.”</p>
			<p>“Where is he?” demanded Miss Todd, getting up quickly. “Take me to him at once?”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy laid a restraining hand upon her arm.</p>
			<p>“Don’t count on this too much, Miss Todd,” he advised. “This man may not be your brother at all. As a matter of fact, we have nothing definite to go on, but we’d like to have you come with us and identify him if you can.”</p>
			<p>“Identify him? Is he dead?”</p>
			<p>“No. But he’s in a local hospital.”</p>
			<p>“Todham in a hospital? Where? I must go to him at once.”</p>
			<p>“Now, as I’ve already said, we’re not at all certain that this man is your brother. If you will come with us we will show you this man and you will be able to see for yourself if he is your brother or not.”</p>
			<p>“Just a minute, until I put on my hat. I’ll go with you right away. My goodness, if it’s really Todham⁠—”</p>
			<p>Talking to herself in her excitement, Miss Todd bustled away upstairs and returned in a few minutes, her hat awry.</p>
			<p>“Hurry!” she said. “Where is the hospital? We’ll take a taxi and get there more quickly.”</p>
			<p>Fenton Hardy smiled sympathetically. Miss Todd was tremendously agitated at the prospect of again seeing her long-lost brother. The hospital was less than three blocks away, so they did not hail a taxi after all, but walked the short distance, and in a little while they found themselves in the doctor’s waiting room.</p>
			<p>A uniformed nurse entered.</p>
			<p>“You want to see the patient called Captain Royal?”</p>
			<p>“If you please.”</p>
			<p>“The doctor is with him now, but he says you may go up. I will show you to his room.”</p>
			<p>“Captain Royal!” exclaimed Evangeline Todd. “That isn’t his name! I thought you said he might be my brother.”</p>
			<p>“That is the name he has been using,” explained Frank. “How is he this morning, nurse?”</p>
			<p>“There isn’t much change in his condition. The doctor says it is a strange case. But, I’m afraid⁠—”</p>
			<p>“Isn’t he going to live?” asked Miss Todd sharply.</p>
			<p>Fenton Hardy soothed her anxiety.</p>
			<p>“Now, Miss Todd, try to calm yourself. We must be very quiet, you know. This man is very, very sick.”</p>
			<p>The lady heeded his advice. During the rest of their journey down the long corridor she talked only in whispers. At length they reached the door of a private room. The nurse knocked. The boys heard the doctor’s voice, saying, “Come!”</p>
			<p>The nurse held open the door and they entered a spacious private room, spotlessly clean and well-lighted. Lying on the bed was Captain Royal, with a white bandage around his head.</p>
			<p>Evangeline Todd looked at the man wildly, then rushed to the bedside.</p>
			<p>“My brother!” she cried. “It’s my brother, Todham!”</p>
			<p>She leaned over the unconscious figure.</p>
			<p>“Speak to me, Todham! Speak to me! Don’t you recognize me? It’s you’re sister. I’ve hunted everywhere for you, and now I’ve found you at last.”</p>
			<p>Then, overcome with emotion, she sank beside the bed and burst into tears.</p>
			<p>“It’s the missing professor, after all!” exclaimed Chet, in awe.</p>
			<p>The Hardy boys, while they had expected that Evangeline Todd would identify Captain Royal as her brother, were electrified with delight.</p>
			<p>“We were right!” said Frank. “He was Todham Todd all along.”</p>
			<p><abbr epub:type="z3998:name-title">Mr.</abbr> Hardy and the doctor tried to calm the weeping woman, who was almost hysterical with relief, now that her long search was ended.</p>
			<p>“It’s Todham!” she said, over and over again. “It’s my brother. I would know him anywhere.”</p>
			<p>But the man in the bed knew nothing of what was going on. His eyes were closed. His face was white and calm. Had it not been for an occasional slight twitching of the nostrils one might have thought that he was dead.</p>
			<p>The doctor, who knew nothing of the reason for Miss Todd’s outburst, was astonished, but in a few words Fenton Hardy explained the situation to him. He shook his head sadly.</p>
			<p>“And this is where she has found her brother, at last?”</p>
			<p>“Yes. He has been missing for months.”</p>
			<p>“I’m afraid,” said the doctor, “that she has found him only to lose him.”</p>
			<p>“Is it that serious?”</p>
			<p>“It’s concussion of the brain, and there seem to have been complications. He has only a slim chance to live.”</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
